Audi Q3 Sportback has 2 variants: 40TFSI Quattro & Bold Edition.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Power Steering.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Air Conditioner.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Heater.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Automatic Climate Control.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Accessory Power Outlet.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Rear Reading Lamp.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Adjustable Headrest.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Rear Seat Centre Arm Rest.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Rear AC Vents.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Cruise Control.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Engine Start/Stop Button.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have KeyLess Entry.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Tachometer.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback do not have Wheel Covers.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Alloy Wheels.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Integrated Antenna.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have LED DRLs.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have LED Headlamps.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Anti-lock Braking System (ABS).
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Central Locking.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Driver Airbag.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Side Airbag.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Seat Belt Warning.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Engine Immobilizer.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback do not have Side Airbag-Rear.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Electronic Stability Control (ESC).
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Anti-Theft Device.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Speed Alert.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Speed Sensing Auto Door Lock.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have ISOFIX Child Seat Mounts.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Hill Assist.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Impact Sensing Auto Door Unlock.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Radio.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Wireless Phone Charging.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Bluetooth Connectivity.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Android Auto.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Apple CarPlay.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Lumbar Support.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Electronic Multi-Tripmeter.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Digital Clock.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Dual Tone Dashboard.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback do not have Power Antenna.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have LED Taillights.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Door Ajar Warning.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Digital Odometer.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Tailgate Ajar Warning.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Leather Seats.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Height Adjustable Driver Seat.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Leather Wrapped Steering Wheel.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Glove Box.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Adjustable Headlamps.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Passenger Airbag.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Tyre Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS).
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Touchscreen.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Child Safety Locks.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Rear Spoiler.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Navigation System.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Roof Rails.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Usb Ports.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback do not have Gear Shift Indicator.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback do not have Luggage Hook & Net.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Low Fuel Warning Light.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Power Boot.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Fog Lights - Front.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Integrated 2DIN Audio.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have USB & Auxiliary input.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback do not have Rear Curtain.
All Audi Q3 Sportback variants use the 40 TFSI quattro engine.
All Audi Q3 Sportback variants have a displacement of 1984  cubic centimeters.
All Audi Q3 Sportback variants produce a maximum power of 187.74 Brake Horsepower (BHP) at 4200 to 6000 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
All Audi Q3 Sportback variants produce a maximum torque of 320 Newton meters at 1500 to 4100 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
All Audi Q3 Sportback variants have 4.0 valves per cylinder.
All Audi Q3 Sportback variants have a Automatic transmission.
All Audi Q3 Sportback variants have 4.0 cylinders.
All Audi Q3 Sportback variants come with a 7-Speed gearbox.
All Audi Q3 Sportback variants have a All-Wheel Drive (AWD) drive type.
All Audi Q3 Sportback variants run on Petrol.
All Audi Q3 Sportback variants comply with BS VI 2.0 emission norms.
All Audi Q3 Sportback variants come with Electric steering.
All Audi Q3 Sportback variants have a length of 4518 mm.
All Audi Q3 Sportback variants have a width of 2022 mm.
All Audi Q3 Sportback variants have a height of 1558 mm.
All Audi Q3 Sportback variants offer 380 Litres of boot space.
All Audi Q3 Sportback variants have a seating capacity of 5.0.
All Audi Q3 Sportback variants have a wheelbase of 2651 mm.
All Audi Q3 Sportback variants have a kerb weight of 1595 kg.
All Audi Q3 Sportback variants have 5.0 doors.
All Audi Q3 Sportback variants have tyres of size 235/55 R18.
All Audi Q3 Sportback variants come with Tubeless Radial tyres.
All Audi Q3 Sportback variants come equipped with 6.0 airbags.
All Audi Q3 Sportback variants come with a 10 inch touchscreen display.
All Audi Q3 Sportback variants come with 10.0 speakers.
All Audi Q3 Sportback variants come with Android Auto, Apple CarPlay connectivity options.
All Audi Q3 Sportback variants have a top speed of 220 kmph.
All Audi Q3 Sportback variants accelerate from 0-100 kmph in 7.3 s.
All Audi Q3 Sportback variants accelerate from 0-100 kmph in 7.3 s.
All Audi Q3 Sportback variants provide a highway mileage of 14.93 kmpl.
Audi Q3 Sportback variant 40TFSI Quattro features a fuel tank capacity of 62 Litres.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Adjustable Steering.
All Audi Q3 Sportback variants are equipped with Front & Rear parking sensors.
All Audi Q3 Sportback variants come with Front USB charging ports.
All Audi Q3 Sportback variants include Front & Rear speakers.
All Audi Q3 Sportback variants have Front electric adjustable seats.
All Audi Q3 Sportback variants have a With Storage central console armrest.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Rear Seat Headrest.
All variants of Audi Q3 Sportback have Sunroof.