Jeep Wrangler has 2 variants: Unlimited & Rubicon.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Power Steering.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Air Conditioner.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Heater.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Automatic Climate Control.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Accessory Power Outlet.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Vanity Mirror.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Engine Start/Stop Button.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Voice Commands.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler do not have Hands-Free Tailgate.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have KeyLess Entry.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Idle Start-Stop System.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Tachometer.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Alloy Wheels.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Integrated Antenna.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Automatic Headlamps.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have LED DRLs.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have LED Headlamps.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Anti-lock Braking System (ABS).
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Central Locking.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Driver Airbag.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Side Airbag.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Engine Immobilizer.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Electronic Stability Control (ESC).
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Anti-Theft Device.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Speed Sensing Auto Door Lock.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Hill Assist.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Radio.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Bluetooth Connectivity.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Android Auto.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Apple CarPlay.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have LED Taillights.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Electronic Brakeforce Distribution (EBD).
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Brake Assist.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Anti-Theft Alarm.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Forward Collision Warning.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Adaptive Cruise Control.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Adaptive High Beam Assist.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Hill Descent Control.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Leather wrap gear-shift selector.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Heated Outside Rear View Mirror.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Height Adjustable Driver Seat.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Rear Window Defogger.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Leather Wrapped Steering Wheel.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Glove Box.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Adjustable Headlamps.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Passenger Airbag.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Day & Night Rear View Mirror.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Tyre Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS).
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Touchscreen.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Rear Window Wiper.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Rear Window Washer.
Jeep Wrangler variants with Roof Rails - Unlimited & Rubicon.
Jeep Wrangler variants with Side Stepper - Unlimited & Rubicon.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Curtain Airbag.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Usb Ports.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Luggage Hook & Net.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have LED Fog Lamps.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Integrated 2DIN Audio.
All Jeep Wrangler variants use the 2.0L Gme T4 Di engine.
All Jeep Wrangler variants have a displacement of 1995  cubic centimeters.
All Jeep Wrangler variants produce a maximum power of 268.20 Brake Horsepower (BHP) at 5250 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
All Jeep Wrangler variants produce a maximum torque of 400 Newton meters at 3000 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
All Jeep Wrangler variants have 4.0 valves per cylinder.
All Jeep Wrangler variants have a Automatic transmission.
All Jeep Wrangler variants have 4.0 cylinders.
All Jeep Wrangler variants come with a 8-Speed-AT gearbox.
All Jeep Wrangler variants have a Four-Wheel Drive (4WD) drive type.
All Jeep Wrangler variants run on Petrol.
All Jeep Wrangler variants comply with BS VI 2.0 emission norms.
All Jeep Wrangler variants come with Electric steering.
All Jeep Wrangler variants have Disc front brakes.
All Jeep Wrangler variants have Disc rear brakes.
All Jeep Wrangler variants have a length of 4867 mm.
Jeep Wrangler variant Unlimited has a width of 1894 mm.
Jeep Wrangler variant Rubicon has a width of 1931 mm.
Jeep Wrangler variant Unlimited has a height of 1853 mm.
Jeep Wrangler variant Rubicon has a height of 1864 mm.
All Jeep Wrangler variants offer 192 Litres of boot space.
All Jeep Wrangler variants have a seating capacity of 5.0.
Jeep Wrangler variant Unlimited has an unladen ground clearance of 223 mm.
Jeep Wrangler variant Rubicon has an unladen ground clearance of 237 mm.
All Jeep Wrangler variants have a wheelbase of 3007 mm.
Jeep Wrangler variant Unlimited has a kerb weight of 2042 kg.
Jeep Wrangler variant Rubicon has a kerb weight of 2146 kg.
All Jeep Wrangler variants have 5.0 doors.
All Jeep Wrangler variants come with a Manual boot opening mechanism.
Jeep Wrangler variant Unlimited comes with tyres of size 255/70 R18.
Jeep Wrangler variant Rubicon comes with tyres of size 255/75 R17.
All Jeep Wrangler variants come with Tubeless Radial tyres.
All Jeep Wrangler variants come equipped with 6.0 airbags.
All Jeep Wrangler variants come with a 12.3 inch touchscreen display.
All Jeep Wrangler variants come with 8.0 speakers.
Jeep Wrangler variant Unlimited has 18 Inch front alloy wheels.
Jeep Wrangler variant Rubicon has 17 Inch front alloy wheels.
Jeep Wrangler variant Unlimited has 18 Inch rear alloy wheels.
Jeep Wrangler variant Rubicon has 17 Inch rear alloy wheels.
Jeep Wrangler variant Unlimited includes Android Auto, Apple CarPlay connectivity features.
Jeep Wrangler variant Rubicon includes Android Auto, Apple CarPlay connectivity features.
All Jeep Wrangler variants feature a Full Digital digital cluster.
All Jeep Wrangler variants come with Leather upholstery.
All Jeep Wrangler variants offer a boot space of 192 Litres.
Jeep Wrangler variant Rubicon includes 1.0 subwoofer(s).
Jeep Wrangler variant Unlimited provides a mileage of 11.4 kmpl.
Jeep Wrangler variant Rubicon provides a mileage of 10.6 kmpl.
All Jeep Wrangler variants have the Multi-link, Solid Axle front suspension.
All Jeep Wrangler variants have the Multi-link, Solid Axle rear suspension.
All Jeep Wrangler variants come with Tilt & Telescopic steering adjustment.
All variants of Jeep Wrangler have Adjustable Steering.
All Jeep Wrangler variants are equipped with Rear parking sensors.
All Jeep Wrangler variants come with Front & Rear USB charging ports.
All Jeep Wrangler variants are equipped with Front & Rear fog lights.
All Jeep Wrangler variants come with a Trail Ready Front Windshield antenna.
All Jeep Wrangler variants feature a 7 inch digital cluster.
All Jeep Wrangler variants have a With Guidedlines rear camera.
All Jeep Wrangler variants include Front & Rear speakers.
All Jeep Wrangler variants have Front electric adjustable seats.
All Jeep Wrangler variants have a 60:40 Split foldable rear seat.
All Jeep Wrangler variants have a With Storage central console armrest.
Jeep Wrangler variant Unlimited offers 8-Speaker Sound System With Overhead Sound bar as additional features.
Jeep Wrangler variant Rubicon offers Premium 9 Speaker Audio (Alpine) System as additional features.