Lexus Nx has 4 variants: 350h Exquisite, 350h Overtrail, 350h Luxury & 350h F-sport.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Power Steering.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Air Conditioner.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Heater.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Automatic Climate Control.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Accessory Power Outlet.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Trunk Light.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Vanity Mirror.
Lexus Nx variant with Rear Reading Lamp - 350h Exquisite.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Adjustable Headrest.
Lexus Nx variant with Rear Seat Centre Arm Rest - 350h Exquisite.
Lexus Nx variant with Rear AC Vents - 350h Exquisite.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Cruise Control.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Engine Start/Stop Button.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Voice Commands.
Lexus Nx variants with Hands-Free Tailgate - 350h Overtrail, 350h Luxury & 350h F-sport.
All variants of Lexus Nx have KeyLess Entry.
Lexus Nx variant with Idle Start-Stop System - 350h Exquisite.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Tachometer.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Alloy Wheels.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Integrated Antenna.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Automatic Headlamps.
All variants of Lexus Nx have LED DRLs.
All variants of Lexus Nx have LED Headlamps.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Anti-lock Braking System (ABS).
All variants of Lexus Nx have Central Locking.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Driver Airbag.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Side Airbag.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Seat Belt Warning.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Engine Immobilizer.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Side Airbag-Rear.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Anti-Theft Device.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Speed Alert.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Speed Sensing Auto Door Lock.
All variants of Lexus Nx have ISOFIX Child Seat Mounts.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Hill Assist.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Impact Sensing Auto Door Unlock.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Radio.
Lexus Nx variants with Wireless Phone Charging - 350h Luxury & 350h F-sport.
Lexus Nx variants without Wireless Phone Charging - 350h Exquisite & 350h Overtrail.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Bluetooth Connectivity.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Android Auto.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Apple CarPlay.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Height Adjustable Front Seat Belts.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Lumbar Support.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Paddle Shifters.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Dual Tone Dashboard.
All variants of Lexus Nx have LED Taillights.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Brake Assist.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Anti-Theft Alarm.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Door Ajar Warning.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Digital Odometer.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Heads-Up Display (HUD).
Lexus Nx variant with Glove Box light - 350h Exquisite.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Ventilated Seats.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Active noise cancellation.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Battery Saver.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Cornering Foglamps.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Leather wrap gear-shift selector.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Blind Spot Monitor.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Tailgate Ajar Warning.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Lane Change Indicator.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Cornering Headlamps.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Traction Control.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Fog Lights - Rear.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Height Adjustable Driver Seat.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Rear Window Defogger.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Leather Wrapped Steering Wheel.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Glove Box.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Adjustable Headlamps.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Outside Rear View Mirror Turn Indicators.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Passenger Airbag.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Day & Night Rear View Mirror.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Tyre Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS).
All variants of Lexus Nx have Touchscreen.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Rear Window Wiper.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Child Safety Locks.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Rear Spoiler.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Rain Sensing Wiper.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Air Quality Control.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Smart Access Card Entry.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Roof Rails.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Dual Tone Body Colour.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Usb Ports.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Gear Shift Indicator.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Luggage Hook & Net.
All variants of Lexus Nx have LED Fog Lamps.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Heated Wing Mirror.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Fog Lights - Front.
All Lexus Nx variants use the A25B-FXS engine.
All Lexus Nx variants have a displacement of 2487  cubic centimeters.
All Lexus Nx variants produce a maximum power of 187.74 Brake Horsepower (BHP) at 6000 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
All Lexus Nx variants produce a maximum torque of 239 Newton meters at 4300 to 4500 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
All Lexus Nx variants have 4.0 valves per cylinder.
All Lexus Nx variants have a Automatic transmission.
All Lexus Nx variants have 4.0 cylinders.
All Lexus Nx variants come with a E-CVT gearbox.
All Lexus Nx variants have a All-Wheel Drive (AWD) drive type.
All Lexus Nx variants run on Petrol.
All Lexus Nx variants comply with BS VI 2.0 emission norms.
All Lexus Nx variants have a turning radius of 5.8m.
All Lexus Nx variants have Ventilated Disc front brakes.
All Lexus Nx variants have Ventilated Disc rear brakes.
All Lexus Nx variants have a length of 4660 mm.
All Lexus Nx variants have a width of 1865 mm.
All Lexus Nx variants have a height of 1670 mm.
All Lexus Nx variants offer 520 Litres of boot space.
All Lexus Nx variants have a seating capacity of 5.0.
All Lexus Nx variants have an unladen ground clearance of 195 mm.
All Lexus Nx variants have a wheelbase of 2690 mm.
All Lexus Nx variants have a kerb weight of 1790-1870 kg.
All Lexus Nx variants have a gross weight of 2380 kg.
All Lexus Nx variants have 5.0 doors.
All Lexus Nx variants have tyres of size 235/50R20.
All Lexus Nx variants come with Tubeless Radial tyres.
All Lexus Nx variants come equipped with 8.0 airbags.
All Lexus Nx variants come with a 14 inch touchscreen display.
Lexus Nx variant 350h Exquisite features 10.0 speakers.
Lexus Nx variants - 350h Overtrail, 350h Luxury & 350h F-sport come with 17.0 speakers.
Lexus Nx variants - 350h Exquisite, 350h Luxury & 350h F-sport use Electric as a secondary fuel type.
All Lexus Nx variants come with 20 Inch front alloy wheels.
All Lexus Nx variants come with 20 Inch rear alloy wheels.
All Lexus Nx variants come with Android Auto, Apple CarPlay connectivity options.
Lexus Nx variants - 350h Exquisite, 350h Luxury & 350h F-sport feature Leather upholstery options.
Lexus Nx variant 350h Overtrail is equipped with Leatherette upholstery.
All Lexus Nx variants have a top speed of 200 kmph.
All Lexus Nx variants have a front tread of 1605 mm.
All Lexus Nx variants accelerate from 0-100 kmph in 7.7 s.
All Lexus Nx variants accelerate from 0-100 kmph in 7.7 s.
All Lexus Nx variants have a rear tread of 1625 mm.
All Lexus Nx variants use a sequential fuel injection fuel supply system.
All Lexus Nx variants are equipped with a Permanent Magnet Synchronous Motor motor type.
All Lexus Nx variants are powered by a Lithium-Ion Battery battery.
All Lexus Nx variants are equipped with 1.0 subwoofer(s).
All Lexus Nx variants feature a Smart trunk opener.
Lexus Nx variant 350h Exquisite provides a mileage of 9.5 kmpl.
Lexus Nx variants - 350h Overtrail, 350h Luxury & 350h F-sport have highway mileage figures of 17.8 kmpl.
All Lexus Nx variants have a fuel tank capacity of 55 Litres.
All Lexus Nx variants have the MacPherson Strut suspension front suspension.
All Lexus Nx variants have the Air suspension rear suspension.
All Lexus Nx variants come with Tilt & Telescopic steering adjustment.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Adjustable Steering.
All Lexus Nx variants are equipped with Front & Rear parking sensors.
All Lexus Nx variants come with Front & Rear USB charging ports.
All Lexus Nx variants include Front & Rear speakers.
All Lexus Nx variants have a 60:40 Split foldable rear seat.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Central Console Armrest.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Turbo Charger.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Rear Seat Headrest.
All variants of Lexus Nx have Sunroof.
Lexus Nx variants - 350h Exquisite, 350h Overtrail & 350h Luxury share the 3 drive mode configuration.
Lexus Nx variant 350h F-sport has 4 drive modes.
Lexus Nx variant 350h Exquisite offers Lexus Navigation system,Lexus Premium Audio, Interior Illumination with 14 colours, as additional features.
Lexus Nx variant 350h Overtrail offers Lexus Navigation system,Mark Levinson, Interior Illumination with 14 colours as additional features.
Lexus Nx variants - 350h Luxury & 350h F-sport share Lexus Navigation system,Mark Levinson,Interior Illumination with 14 colours as additional features.