Lexus Lm has 2 variants: 350h 7 Seater VIP & 350h 4 Seater Ultra Luxury.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Power Steering.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Air Conditioner.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Heater.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Automatic Climate Control.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Accessory Power Outlet.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Vanity Mirror.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Rear Reading Lamp.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Adjustable Headrest.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Rear Seat Centre Arm Rest.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Rear AC Vents.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Cruise Control.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Real-Time Vehicle Tracking.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Engine Start/Stop Button.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Voice Commands.
All variants of Lexus Lm do not have Hands-Free Tailgate.
All variants of Lexus Lm have KeyLess Entry.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Idle Start-Stop System.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Follow Me Home Headlamps.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Tachometer.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Automatic Headlamps.
All variants of Lexus Lm have LED DRLs.
All variants of Lexus Lm have LED Headlamps.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Anti-lock Braking System (ABS).
All variants of Lexus Lm have Central Locking.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Driver Airbag.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Side Airbag.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Seat Belt Warning.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Engine Immobilizer.
All variants of Lexus Lm have E-Call & I-Call.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Remote AC On/Off.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Side Airbag-Rear.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Electronic Stability Control (ESC).
All variants of Lexus Lm have Anti-Theft Device.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Speed Alert.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Speed Sensing Auto Door Lock.
All variants of Lexus Lm have ISOFIX Child Seat Mounts.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Hill Assist.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Impact Sensing Auto Door Unlock.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Radio.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Wireless Phone Charging.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Bluetooth Connectivity.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Android Auto.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Apple CarPlay.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Driver Attention Warning.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Live Location.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Over the Air (OTA) Updates.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Google / Alexa Connectivity.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Over Speeding Alert.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Smartwatch App.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Valet Mode.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Remote Door Lock/Unlock.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Geo-fence Alert.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Height Adjustable Front Seat Belts.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Lumbar Support.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Tow Away Alert.
All variants of Lexus Lm have LED Taillights.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Electronic Brakeforce Distribution (EBD).
All variants of Lexus Lm have Brake Assist.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Anti-Theft Alarm.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Door Ajar Warning.
All variants of Lexus Lm have SOS / Emergency Assistance.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Forward Collision Warning.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Lane Keep Assist.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Adaptive High Beam Assist.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Unauthorised Vehicle entry.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Cooled Glovebox.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Glove Box light.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Ventilated Seats.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Heated Outside Rear View Mirror.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Blind Spot Monitor.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Live Weather.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Tailgate Ajar Warning.
All variants of Lexus Lm have SOS Button.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Lane Change Indicator.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Cornering Headlamps.
All variants of Lexus Lm have RSA.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Rear Entertainment System.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Height Adjustable Driver Seat.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Rear Window Defogger.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Leather Wrapped Steering Wheel.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Glove Box.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Adjustable Headlamps.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Outside Rear View Mirror Turn Indicators.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Passenger Airbag.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Day & Night Rear View Mirror.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Tyre Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS).
All variants of Lexus Lm have Touchscreen.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Child Safety Locks.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Rear Spoiler.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Rain Sensing Wiper.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Air Quality Control.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Rear Touchscreen.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Curtain Airbag.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Usb Ports.
All Lexus Lm variants use the Inline With Dual VVT-i engine.
All Lexus Lm variants have a displacement of 2487  cubic centimeters.
All Lexus Lm variants produce a maximum power of 190.42 Brake Horsepower (BHP) at 6000 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
All Lexus Lm variants produce a maximum torque of 242 Newton meters at 4300  to  4500 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
All Lexus Lm variants have 4.0 valves per cylinder.
All Lexus Lm variants have a Automatic transmission.
All Lexus Lm variants have 4.0 cylinders.
All Lexus Lm variants have a All-Wheel Drive (AWD) drive type.
All Lexus Lm variants run on Petrol.
All Lexus Lm variants comply with BS VI 2.0 emission norms.
All Lexus Lm variants come with Electric steering.
All Lexus Lm variants have a turning radius of 5.9m.
All Lexus Lm variants have ventilated discs front brakes.
All Lexus Lm variants have Ventilated Disc rear brakes.
All Lexus Lm variants have a length of 5125 mm.
All Lexus Lm variants have a width of 1890 mm.
All Lexus Lm variants have a height of 1940 mm.
All Lexus Lm variants offer 752 Litres of boot space.
Lexus Lm variant 350h 7 Seater VIP has a seating capacity of 7.0.
Lexus Lm variant 350h 4 Seater Ultra Luxury has a seating capacity of 4.0.
All Lexus Lm variants have a wheelbase of 3000 mm.
All Lexus Lm variants have a kerb weight of 2315 kg.
Lexus Lm variant 350h 7 Seater VIP has a gross weight of 2880 kg.
Lexus Lm variant 350h 4 Seater Ultra Luxury has a gross weight of 2870 kg.
All Lexus Lm variants have 5.0 doors.
All Lexus Lm variants have tyres of size 225/55 R19.
All Lexus Lm variants come with Tubeless Radial tyres.
All Lexus Lm variants come equipped with 14.0 airbags.
All Lexus Lm variants come with a 14 inch touchscreen display.
Lexus Lm variant 350h 7 Seater VIP features 21.0 speakers.
Lexus Lm variant 350h 4 Seater Ultra Luxury features 23.0 speakers.
All Lexus Lm variants use Electric as a secondary fuel type.
All Lexus Lm variants come with 19 Inch front alloy wheels.
All Lexus Lm variants come with 19 Inch rear alloy wheels.
All Lexus Lm variants come with Android Auto, Apple CarPlay connectivity options.
All Lexus Lm variants feature a Full Digital digital cluster.
All Lexus Lm variants offer a boot space of 752 Litres.
All Lexus Lm variants have a front tread of 1615 mm.
All Lexus Lm variants come with a DOHC valve configuration.
All Lexus Lm variants have a rear tread of 1620 mm.
All Lexus Lm variants use a SFI (D-4S) fuel supply system.
All Lexus Lm variants are equipped with a Permanent Magnet Synchronous Motor motor type.
All Lexus Lm variants are powered by a Nickel Metal Hydride Battery battery.
All Lexus Lm variants have All Windows anti-pinch power windows.
All Lexus Lm variants have a fuel tank capacity of 60 Litres.
All Lexus Lm variants have the MacPherson Strut suspension front suspension.
All Lexus Lm variants have the Double wishbone suspension rear suspension.
All Lexus Lm variants come with Tilt & Telescopic steering adjustment.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Adjustable Steering.
All Lexus Lm variants are equipped with Front & Rear parking sensors.
All Lexus Lm variants come with Front & Rear USB charging ports.
All Lexus Lm variants come with a Shark Fin antenna.
All Lexus Lm variants feature a 12 inch digital cluster.
All Lexus Lm variants have a With Guidedlines rear camera.
All Lexus Lm variants have Driver and Passenger seatbelt pretensioners and force limiters.
All Lexus Lm variants have Front electric adjustable seats.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Central Console Armrest.
All Lexus Lm variants come with Driver and Passenger knee airbags.
All Lexus Lm variants feature ambient lighting with 64 color options.
All variants of Lexus Lm have Rear Seat Headrest.
All Lexus Lm variants come with a Panoramic sunroof.
All Lexus Lm variants come with Windshield glass; UV (Ultraviolet)-cut/IR (Infrared Ray)-cut green-Laminated glass,Front door and sliding door window glass; acoustic glass, IR- and UV-cut function,Rear quarter window and back door window glass; UV-cut green-tinted glass,Left/right independent glass roof,LED High Mount stop lamp as additional features.