Maserati Gran Cabrio has 4 variants: 4.7 V8, Sport Diesel, 4.7 MC & MC Diesel.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Power Steering.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Air Conditioner.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Heater.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Automatic Climate Control.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Accessory Power Outlet.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Trunk Light.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio do not have Vanity Mirror.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio do not have Rear Reading Lamp.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Rear Seat Centre Arm Rest.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Rear AC Vents.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Cruise Control.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Engine Start/Stop Button.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio do not have Voice Commands.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio do not have Chrome Grille.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have KeyLess Entry.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio do not have Follow Me Home Headlamps.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Tachometer.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio do not have Wheel Covers.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Alloy Wheels.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Integrated Antenna.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio do not have Automatic Headlamps.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Anti-lock Braking System (ABS).
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Central Locking.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Driver Airbag.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Side Airbag.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Seat Belt Warning.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Engine Immobilizer.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio do not have Side Airbag-Rear.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Anti-Theft Device.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio do not have Speed Sensing Auto Door Lock.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio do not have ISOFIX Child Seat Mounts.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio do not have Hill Assist.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio do not have Impact Sensing Auto Door Unlock.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio do not have 360 View Camera.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Radio.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Bluetooth Connectivity.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio do not have Height Adjustable Front Seat Belts.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio do not have Lumbar Support.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Paddle Shifters.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Electronic Multi-Tripmeter.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio do not have Digital Clock.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Outside Temperature Display.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio do not have Dual Tone Dashboard.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio do not have Power Antenna.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio do not have Halogen Headlamps.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Brake Assist.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Anti-Theft Alarm.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Door Ajar Warning.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Digital Odometer.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio do not have Heads-Up Display (HUD).
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio do not have Cooled Glovebox.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio do not have Ventilated Seats.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio do not have Hill Descent Control.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio do not have Battery Saver.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Smoke Headlamps.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio do not have Blind Spot Monitor.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio do not have Tailgate Ajar Warning.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Remote Trunk Opener.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Remote Fuel Lid Opener.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio do not have Lane Change Indicator.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Xenon Headlamps.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Traction Control.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio do not have Rear Entertainment System.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Leather Seats.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio do not have Driving Experience Control Eco.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Fog Lights - Rear.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio do not have Internal Storage.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Super Charge.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Height Adjustable Driver Seat.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Rear Window Defogger.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Leather Wrapped Steering Wheel.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Glove Box.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Adjustable Headlamps.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Outside Rear View Mirror Turn Indicators.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Passenger Airbag.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Day & Night Rear View Mirror.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Tyre Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS).
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Touchscreen.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Rear Window Wiper.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Rear Window Washer.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Chrome Garnish.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Child Safety Locks.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Rear Spoiler.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Rain Sensing Wiper.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Air Quality Control.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Tinted Glass.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Folding Table in The Rear.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Navigation System.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Smart Access Card Entry.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Fabric Upholstery.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Roof Rails.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Cigarette Lighter.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Roof Carrier.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Side Stepper.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Usb Ports.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio do not have Gear Shift Indicator.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio do not have Luggage Hook & Net.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Low Fuel Warning Light.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Fog Lights - Front.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Integrated 2DIN Audio.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have USB & Auxiliary input.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio do not have Rear Curtain.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio do not have Audio System Remote Control.
Maserati Gran Cabrio variants - 4.7 V8 & 4.7 MC share the V Type Petrol Engine engine.
Maserati Gran Cabrio variants - Sport Diesel & MC Diesel share the V Type Diesel Engine engine.
All Maserati Gran Cabrio variants have a displacement of 4691  cubic centimeters.
Maserati Gran Cabrio variants - 4.7 V8 & 4.7 MC have a max power of 450 Brake Horsepower (BHP) at 7000 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
Maserati Gran Cabrio variants - Sport Diesel & MC Diesel have a max power of 460 Brake Horsepower (BHP).
Maserati Gran Cabrio variants - 4.7 V8 & 4.7 MC share a max torque of 510 Newton meters at 4750 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
Maserati Gran Cabrio variants - Sport Diesel & MC Diesel share a max torque of 520 Newton meters.
All Maserati Gran Cabrio variants have 4.0 valves per cylinder.
All Maserati Gran Cabrio variants have a Automatic transmission.
All Maserati Gran Cabrio variants have 8.0 cylinders.
All Maserati Gran Cabrio variants come with a 6-Speed gearbox.
All Maserati Gran Cabrio variants have a Rear-Wheel Drive (RWD) drive type.
Maserati Gran Cabrio variants - 4.7 V8 & 4.7 MC use Petrol as fuel.
Maserati Gran Cabrio variants - Sport Diesel & MC Diesel use Diesel as fuel.
All Maserati Gran Cabrio variants comply with BS VI 2.0 emission norms.
All Maserati Gran Cabrio variants come with Power steering.
All Maserati Gran Cabrio variants have a turning radius of 6.15m.
All Maserati Gran Cabrio variants have Ventilated Disc front brakes.
All Maserati Gran Cabrio variants have Ventilated Disc rear brakes.
Maserati Gran Cabrio variants - 4.7 V8 & Sport Diesel share a length of 4910 mm.
Maserati Gran Cabrio variants - 4.7 MC & MC Diesel share a length of 4920 mm.
All Maserati Gran Cabrio variants have a width of 2056 mm.
All Maserati Gran Cabrio variants have a height of 1380 mm.
All Maserati Gran Cabrio variants offer 173 Litres of boot space.
All Maserati Gran Cabrio variants have a seating capacity of 4.0.
All Maserati Gran Cabrio variants have an unladen ground clearance of 110 mm.
All Maserati Gran Cabrio variants have a wheelbase of 2942 mm.
Maserati Gran Cabrio variants - 4.7 V8 & MC Diesel share a kerb weight of 1980 kg.
Maserati Gran Cabrio variants - Sport Diesel & 4.7 MC share a kerb weight of 1973 kg.
All Maserati Gran Cabrio variants have a gross weight of 2350 kg.
All Maserati Gran Cabrio variants have 2.0 doors.
All Maserati Gran Cabrio variants have tyres of size 245/35 R20,285/35 R20.
All Maserati Gran Cabrio variants come with Tubeless Radial tyres.
All Maserati Gran Cabrio variants come equipped with 6.0 airbags.
Maserati Gran Cabrio variants - 4.7 V8 & 4.7 MC have a top speed of 285 kmph.
Maserati Gran Cabrio variant Sport Diesel has a top speed of 299 kmph.
Maserati Gran Cabrio variant MC Diesel has a top speed of 301 kmph.
Maserati Gran Cabrio variant 4.7 V8 features a front tread of 1586 mm.
Maserati Gran Cabrio variant Sport Diesel features a front tread of 1631 mm.
Maserati Gran Cabrio variant 4.7 MC features a front tread of 1624 mm.
Maserati Gran Cabrio variant MC Diesel features a front tread of 1605 mm.
Maserati Gran Cabrio variants - 4.7 V8 & 4.7 MC have a 0-100 kmph acceleration time of 5.2 s.
Maserati Gran Cabrio variants - Sport Diesel & MC Diesel have a 0-100 kmph acceleration time of 4.8 s.
Maserati Gran Cabrio variants - 4.7 V8 & 4.7 MC have a 0-100 kmph acceleration time of 5.2 s.
Maserati Gran Cabrio variants - Sport Diesel & MC Diesel have a 0-100 kmph acceleration time of 4.8 s.
All Maserati Gran Cabrio variants come with a DOHC valve configuration.
All Maserati Gran Cabrio variants use a Rack & Pinion steering gear type.
All Maserati Gran Cabrio variants have a rear tread of 1590 mm.
All Maserati Gran Cabrio variants use a Direct Injection (Di) fuel supply system.
All Maserati Gran Cabrio variants feature a Smart trunk opener.
All Maserati Gran Cabrio variants offer a mileage of 10.2 kmpl.
All Maserati Gran Cabrio variants have a fuel tank capacity of 75 Litres.
All Maserati Gran Cabrio variants come with Height & Reach Adjustment steering adjustment.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Adjustable Steering.
All Maserati Gran Cabrio variants are equipped with Rear parking sensors.
All Maserati Gran Cabrio variants come with Front USB charging ports.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio do not have Rear Camera.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio do not have Pretensioners & Force Limiter Seatbelts.
All Maserati Gran Cabrio variants include Front & Rear speakers.
All Maserati Gran Cabrio variants have Front electric adjustable seats.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio do not have Foldable Rear Seat.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio do not have Central Console Armrest.
Maserati Gran Cabrio variants without Turbo Charger - 4.7 V8 & 4.7 MC.
Maserati Gran Cabrio variants with Turbo Charger - Sport Diesel & MC Diesel.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio do not have Knee Airbags.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio do not have Autonomous Parking.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio have Rear Seat Headrest.
All variants of Maserati Gran Cabrio do not have Sunroof.
All Maserati Gran Cabrio variants come with 0 drive modes.