Maserati Grecale has 3 variants: GT, Modena & Trofeo.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Power Steering.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Air Conditioner.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Heater.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Automatic Climate Control.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Accessory Power Outlet.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Trunk Light.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Vanity Mirror.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Rear Reading Lamp.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Adjustable Headrest.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Rear Seat Centre Arm Rest.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Rear AC Vents.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Cruise Control.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Real-Time Vehicle Tracking.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Engine Start/Stop Button.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Voice Commands.
All variants of Maserati Grecale do not have Hands-Free Tailgate.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have KeyLess Entry.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Idle Start-Stop System.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Follow Me Home Headlamps.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Tachometer.
All variants of Maserati Grecale do not have Wheel Covers.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Alloy Wheels.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Projector Headlamps.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Automatic Headlamps.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have LED DRLs.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have LED Headlamps.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Anti-lock Braking System (ABS).
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Central Locking.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Driver Airbag.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Side Airbag.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Seat Belt Warning.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Engine Immobilizer.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Electronic Stability Control (ESC).
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Anti-Theft Device.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Speed Alert.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Speed Sensing Auto Door Lock.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have ISOFIX Child Seat Mounts.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Hill Assist.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Impact Sensing Auto Door Unlock.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have 360 View Camera.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Radio.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Wireless Phone Charging.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Bluetooth Connectivity.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Android Auto.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Apple CarPlay.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Height Adjustable Front Seat Belts.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Lumbar Support.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Paddle Shifters.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have LED Taillights.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Electronic Brakeforce Distribution (EBD).
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Brake Assist.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Anti-Theft Alarm.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Door Ajar Warning.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Blind Spot Camera.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Cooled Glovebox.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Glove Box light.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Ventilated Seats.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Hill Descent Control.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Battery Saver.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Blind Spot Monitor.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Tailgate Ajar Warning.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Lane Change Indicator.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Traction Control.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Height Adjustable Driver Seat.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Rear Window Defogger.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Leather Wrapped Steering Wheel.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Glove Box.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Adjustable Headlamps.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Outside Rear View Mirror Turn Indicators.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Passenger Airbag.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Day & Night Rear View Mirror.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Tyre Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS).
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Touchscreen.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Child Safety Locks.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Rain Sensing Wiper.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Air Quality Control.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Curtain Airbag.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Usb Ports.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Luggage Hook & Net.
Maserati Grecale variants - GT & Modena share the L4 MHEV engine.
Maserati Grecale variant Trofeo has the V6 90° engine.
Maserati Grecale variants - GT & Modena share a displacement of 1995  cubic centimeters.
Maserati Grecale variant Trofeo has a displacement of 3000  cubic centimeters.
Maserati Grecale variants - GT & Modena have a max power of 296 Brake Horsepower (BHP) at 5750 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
Maserati Grecale variant Trofeo delivers a max power of 523 Brake Horsepower (BHP) at 6500 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
Maserati Grecale variants - GT & Modena share a max torque of 450 Newton meters at 2000 to 4000 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
Maserati Grecale variant Trofeo has a max torque of 620 Newton meters at 3000 to 5500 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
All Maserati Grecale variants have 4.0 valves per cylinder.
All Maserati Grecale variants have a Automatic transmission.
Maserati Grecale variants - GT & Modena have 4.0 cylinders.
Maserati Grecale variant Trofeo has 6.0 cylinders.
All Maserati Grecale variants come with a 8-Speed gearbox.
All Maserati Grecale variants have a All-Wheel Drive (AWD) drive type.
All Maserati Grecale variants run on Petrol.
All Maserati Grecale variants comply with BS VI 2.0 emission norms.
All Maserati Grecale variants come with Electric steering.
All Maserati Grecale variants have a turning radius of 6.2m.
All Maserati Grecale variants have Disc front brakes.
All Maserati Grecale variants have Disc rear brakes.
Maserati Grecale variant GT has a length of 4846 mm.
Maserati Grecale variant Modena has a length of 4847 mm.
Maserati Grecale variant Trofeo has a length of 4559 mm.
All Maserati Grecale variants have a width of 2163 mm.
Maserati Grecale variant GT has a height of 1670 mm.
Maserati Grecale variant Modena has a height of 1667 mm.
Maserati Grecale variant Trofeo has a height of 1659 mm.
Maserati Grecale variants - GT & Modena share a boot space of 535 Litres.
Maserati Grecale variant Trofeo offers 570 Litres of boot space.
All Maserati Grecale variants have a seating capacity of 5.0.
All Maserati Grecale variants have a wheelbase of 2901 mm.
All Maserati Grecale variants have 5.0 doors.
All Maserati Grecale variants come with Unknown tyres.
All Maserati Grecale variants come equipped with 6.0 airbags.
All Maserati Grecale variants come with a unknown touchscreen display.
Maserati Grecale variants - GT & Modena use Electric as a secondary fuel type.
All Maserati Grecale variants achieve 100-0 kmph braking in 40 s seconds.
All Maserati Grecale variants feature a Full Digital digital cluster.
All Maserati Grecale variants come with Leather upholstery.
Maserati Grecale variants - GT & Modena have a top speed of 240 kmph.
Maserati Grecale variant Trofeo has a top speed of 285 kmph.
Maserati Grecale variant GT accelerates from 0-100 kmph in 5.6 s.
Maserati Grecale variant Modena accelerates from 0-100 kmph in 5.3 s.
Maserati Grecale variant Trofeo accelerates from 0-100 kmph in 3.8 s.
Maserati Grecale variant GT accelerates from 0-100 kmph in 5.6 s.
Maserati Grecale variant Modena accelerates from 0-100 kmph in 5.3 s.
Maserati Grecale variant Trofeo accelerates from 0-100 kmph in 3.8 s.
All Maserati Grecale variants have All Windows anti-pinch power windows.
Maserati Grecale variants - GT & Modena have highway mileage figures of 9.2 kmpl.
Maserati Grecale variant Trofeo has a highway mileage of 17.4 kmpl.
All Maserati Grecale variants have a fuel tank capacity of 64 Litres.
All Maserati Grecale variants have the Air suspension front suspension.
All Maserati Grecale variants have the Air suspension rear suspension.
All Maserati Grecale variants come with Tilt & Telescopic steering adjustment.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Adjustable Steering.
All Maserati Grecale variants are equipped with Rear parking sensors.
All Maserati Grecale variants come with Front & Rear USB charging ports.
All Maserati Grecale variants have a With Guidedlines rear camera.
All Maserati Grecale variants have Driver and Passenger seatbelt pretensioners and force limiters.
All Maserati Grecale variants have Front electric adjustable seats.
All Maserati Grecale variants have a With Storage central console armrest.
All variants of Maserati Grecale have Rear Seat Headrest.
All Maserati Grecale variants come with a Panoramic sunroof.