Mercedes Benz Glc has 2 variants: 300 & 220d.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Power Steering.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Air Conditioner.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Heater.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Automatic Climate Control.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Accessory Power Outlet.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Trunk Light.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Vanity Mirror.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Rear Reading Lamp.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Adjustable Headrest.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Rear Seat Centre Arm Rest.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Rear AC Vents.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Cruise Control.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Real-Time Vehicle Tracking.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Engine Start/Stop Button.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Voice Commands.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Hands-Free Tailgate.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Chrome Grille.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have KeyLess Entry.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Tachometer.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant without Wheel Covers - 220d.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Alloy Wheels.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Automatic Headlamps.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have LED DRLs.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have LED Headlamps.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Anti-lock Braking System (ABS).
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Central Locking.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Driver Airbag.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Side Airbag.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Seat Belt Warning.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Engine Immobilizer.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have E-Call & I-Call.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Remote AC On/Off.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc do not have Side Airbag-Rear.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant with Anti-Theft Device - 300.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Speed Alert.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have ISOFIX Child Seat Mounts.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Hill Assist.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have 360 View Camera.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Radio.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Wireless Phone Charging.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Bluetooth Connectivity.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Android Auto.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Apple CarPlay.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Live Location.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Google / Alexa Connectivity.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Remote Door Lock/Unlock.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Geo-fence Alert.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant with Remote Climate Control (A/C) - 220d.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant with Height Adjustable Front Seat Belts - 220d.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant without Height Adjustable Front Seat Belts - 300.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant with Lumbar Support - 300.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant without Lumbar Support - 220d.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant with Paddle Shifters - 300.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant without Paddle Shifters - 220d.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant with Electronic Multi-Tripmeter - 220d.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant with Digital Clock - 220d.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant with Outside Temperature Display - 220d.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Dual Tone Dashboard.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant without Power Antenna - 220d.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Halogen Headlamps.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have LED Taillights.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Brake Assist.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Anti-Theft Alarm.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Digital Odometer.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have SOS / Emergency Assistance.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Blind Spot Camera.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Speed Assist System.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Traffic Sign Recognition.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Blind Spot Collision Avoidance Assist.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Lane Departure Warning.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Lane Keep Assist.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Adaptive High Beam Assist.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Cooled Glovebox.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Navigation with Live Traffic.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Send POI to Vehicle From App.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant without Ventilated Seats - 220d.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Hill Descent Control.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Active noise cancellation.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant without Battery Saver - 220d.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Rear Window Sunblind.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Rear Windscreen Sunblind.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant without Leather wrap gear-shift selector - 220d.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant without Smoke Headlamps - 220d.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Blind Spot Monitor.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Digital Car Key.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Live Weather.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Tailgate Ajar Warning.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant with Remote Trunk Opener - 220d.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Remote Fuel Lid Opener.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Lane Change Indicator.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Wi-Fi Connectivity.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Save Route/Place.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Cornering Headlamps.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Xenon Headlamps.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant without Regenerative Braking - 300.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant with Leather Seats - 220d.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant with Driving Experience Control Eco - 220d.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc do not have MirrorLink.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant without Fog Lights - Rear - 220d.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Height Adjustable Driver Seat.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Rear Window Defogger.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Leather Wrapped Steering Wheel.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Glove Box.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Adjustable Headlamps.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Outside Rear View Mirror Turn Indicators.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Passenger Airbag.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Day & Night Rear View Mirror.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Tyre Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS).
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Touchscreen.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Rear Window Wiper.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Rear Window Washer.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Chrome Garnish.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Child Safety Locks.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Rear Spoiler.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Rain Sensing Wiper.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Air Quality Control.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant with Tinted Glass - 220d.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant with Navigation System - 220d.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Smart Access Card Entry.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant with Fabric Upholstery - 220d.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Roof Rails.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant with Roof Carrier - 220d.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Side Stepper.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Usb Ports.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant without Gear Shift Indicator - 220d.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Luggage Hook & Net.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant with Low Fuel Warning Light - 220d.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant with Fog Lights - Front - 220d.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Integrated 2DIN Audio.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant without Rear Curtain - 220d.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant 300 has the M254 engine.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant 220d has the OM654M engine.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant 300 has a displacement of 1999  cubic centimeters.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant 220d has a displacement of 1993  cubic centimeters.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant 300 delivers a max power of 254.79 Brake Horsepower (BHP) at 5800 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
Mercedes Benz Glc variant 220d delivers a max power of 194.44 Brake Horsepower (BHP) at 3600 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
Mercedes Benz Glc variant 300 has a max torque of 400 Newton meters at 1800 to 2200 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
Mercedes Benz Glc variant 220d has a max torque of 440 Newton meters at 2000 to 3200 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
All Mercedes Benz Glc variants have 4.0 valves per cylinder.
All Mercedes Benz Glc variants have a Automatic transmission.
All Mercedes Benz Glc variants have 4.0 cylinders.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant 300 comes with a 9-Speed gearbox.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant 220d comes with a 9-Speed-TRONIC gearbox.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant 300 has a Four-Wheel Drive (4WD) drive type.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant 220d has a All-Wheel Drive (AWD) drive type.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant 300 runs on Petrol.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant 220d runs on Diesel.
All Mercedes Benz Glc variants come with Electric steering.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant 220d has Disc front brakes.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant 220d has Disc rear brakes.
All Mercedes Benz Glc variants have a length of 4716 mm.
All Mercedes Benz Glc variants have a width of 1890 mm.
All Mercedes Benz Glc variants have a height of 1640 mm.
All Mercedes Benz Glc variants offer 620 Litres of boot space.
All Mercedes Benz Glc variants have a seating capacity of 5.0.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant 300 has a wheelbase of 3095 mm.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant 220d has a wheelbase of 2580 mm.
All Mercedes Benz Glc variants have a kerb weight of 2000 kg.
All Mercedes Benz Glc variants have a gross weight of 2550 kg.
All Mercedes Benz Glc variants have 5.0 doors.
All Mercedes Benz Glc variants come with a Automatic boot opening mechanism.
All Mercedes Benz Glc variants have tyres of size 235/55 R19.
All Mercedes Benz Glc variants come with Tubeless Radial tyres.
All Mercedes Benz Glc variants have R19 Inch wheels.
All Mercedes Benz Glc variants come equipped with 7.0 airbags.
All Mercedes Benz Glc variants come with a 11.9 inch touchscreen display.
All Mercedes Benz Glc variants come with 15.0 speakers.
All Mercedes Benz Glc variants come with 19 Inch front alloy wheels.
All Mercedes Benz Glc variants come with 19 Inch rear alloy wheels.
All Mercedes Benz Glc variants come with Android Auto, Apple CarPlay connectivity options.
All Mercedes Benz Glc variants feature a Full Digital digital cluster.
All Mercedes Benz Glc variants come with Leather upholstery.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant 300 has a top speed of 240 kmph.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant 220d has a top speed of 219 kmph.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant 300 features a front tread of 1561 mm.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant 300 accelerates from 0-100 kmph in 6.2 s.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant 220d accelerates from 0-100 kmph in 8 s.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant 300 accelerates from 0-100 kmph in 6.2 s.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant 220d accelerates from 0-100 kmph in 8 s.
All Mercedes Benz Glc variants have a rear tread of 1640 mm.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant 300 features a Multi-Point Fuel Injection (MPFi) fuel supply system.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant 220d features a Common Rail Direct Injection (CRDi) fuel supply system.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant 220d has a Remote trunk opener.
All Mercedes Benz Glc variants have All Windows anti-pinch power windows.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant 300 has a highway mileage of 12.7 kmpl.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant 220d has a highway mileage of 18 kmpl.
All Mercedes Benz Glc variants have a fuel tank capacity of 66 Litres.
All Mercedes Benz Glc variants have the Multi-link suspension front suspension.
All Mercedes Benz Glc variants have the Multi-link suspension rear suspension.
All Mercedes Benz Glc variants come with Tilt & Telescopic steering adjustment.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Adjustable Steering.
All Mercedes Benz Glc variants are equipped with Front & Rear parking sensors.
All Mercedes Benz Glc variants come with Front USB charging ports.
All Mercedes Benz Glc variants feature a 12.3 inch digital cluster.
All Mercedes Benz Glc variants have a With Guidedlines rear camera.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant 300 has Driver seatbelt pretensioners and force limiters.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant 220d has Driver and Passenger seatbelt pretensioners and force limiters.
All Mercedes Benz Glc variants include Front & Rear speakers.
All Mercedes Benz Glc variants have Front & Rear electric adjustable seats.
All Mercedes Benz Glc variants have a 60:40 Split foldable rear seat.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Central Console Armrest.
Mercedes Benz Glc variant with Turbo Charger - 220d.
All Mercedes Benz Glc variants have Full autonomous parking.
All Mercedes Benz Glc variants feature ambient lighting with 64 color options.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Glc have Rear Seat Headrest.
All Mercedes Benz Glc variants come with a Panoramic sunroof.
All Mercedes Benz Glc variants come with 4 drive modes.
All Mercedes Benz Glc variants come with connect with Alexa, Google Home integration and Parking location on navigation system as additional features.