Mercedes Benz Eqb has 2 variants: 250 Plus & 350 4Matic.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Power Steering.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Air Conditioner.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Heater.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Automatic Climate Control.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Accessory Power Outlet.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Trunk Light.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Vanity Mirror.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Rear Reading Lamp.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Adjustable Headrest.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Rear Seat Centre Arm Rest.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Rear AC Vents.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Cruise Control.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Real-Time Vehicle Tracking.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Engine Start/Stop Button.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Voice Commands.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have KeyLess Entry.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Idle Start-Stop System.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Follow Me Home Headlamps.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Tachometer.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Alloy Wheels.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Integrated Antenna.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Projector Headlamps.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have LED DRLs.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have LED Headlamps.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Anti-lock Braking System (ABS).
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Central Locking.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Driver Airbag.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Side Airbag.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Seat Belt Warning.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have E-Call & I-Call.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Remote AC On/Off.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb do not have Side Airbag-Rear.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Electronic Stability Control (ESC).
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Anti-Theft Device.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Speed Alert.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Speed Sensing Auto Door Lock.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have ISOFIX Child Seat Mounts.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Hill Assist.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Impact Sensing Auto Door Unlock.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Radio.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Wireless Phone Charging.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Bluetooth Connectivity.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Android Auto.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Apple CarPlay.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Live Location.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Over the Air (OTA) Updates.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Google / Alexa Connectivity.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Over Speeding Alert.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Smartwatch App.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Valet Mode.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Remote Door Lock/Unlock.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Geo-fence Alert.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Height Adjustable Front Seat Belts.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Lumbar Support.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Tow Away Alert.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Dual Tone Dashboard.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have LED Taillights.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Electronic Brakeforce Distribution (EBD).
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Brake Assist.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Anti-Theft Alarm.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Door Ajar Warning.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Digital Odometer.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have SOS / Emergency Assistance.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Unauthorised Vehicle entry.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Cooled Glovebox.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Glove Box light.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Ventilated Seats.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Hill Descent Control.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Blind Spot Monitor.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Live Weather.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Tailgate Ajar Warning.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have SOS Button.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Lane Change Indicator.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Engine Start Alarm.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Regenerative Braking.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Fast Charging.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Traction Control.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have RSA.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Hinglish Voice Commands.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Height Adjustable Driver Seat.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Rear Window Defogger.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Leather Wrapped Steering Wheel.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Glove Box.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Adjustable Headlamps.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Outside Rear View Mirror Turn Indicators.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Passenger Airbag.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Day & Night Rear View Mirror.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Tyre Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS).
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Touchscreen.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Rear Window Wiper.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Rear Window Washer.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Child Safety Locks.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Rear Spoiler.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Rain Sensing Wiper.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Air Quality Control.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Roof Rails.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Curtain Airbag.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Usb Ports.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Luggage Hook & Net.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have LED Fog Lamps.
Mercedes Benz Eqb variant 250 Plus delivers a max power of 187.74 Brake Horsepower (BHP).
Mercedes Benz Eqb variant 350 4Matic delivers a max power of 288.32 Brake Horsepower (BHP).
Mercedes Benz Eqb variant 250 Plus has a max torque of 385 Newton meters.
Mercedes Benz Eqb variant 350 4Matic has a max torque of 520 Newton meters.
All Mercedes Benz Eqb variants have a Automatic transmission.
Mercedes Benz Eqb variant 250 Plus has a Front-Wheel Drive (FWD) drive type.
Mercedes Benz Eqb variant 350 4Matic has a All-Wheel Drive (AWD) drive type.
All Mercedes Benz Eqb variants run on Electric.
All Mercedes Benz Eqb variants comply with ZEV emission norms.
All Mercedes Benz Eqb variants come with Electric steering.
All Mercedes Benz Eqb variants have a turning radius of 11.7m.
All Mercedes Benz Eqb variants have Disc front brakes.
All Mercedes Benz Eqb variants have Disc rear brakes.
All Mercedes Benz Eqb variants have a length of 4684 mm.
All Mercedes Benz Eqb variants have a width of 2020 mm.
Mercedes Benz Eqb variant 250 Plus has a height of 1654 mm.
Mercedes Benz Eqb variant 350 4Matic has a height of 1689 mm.
All Mercedes Benz Eqb variants offer 495 Litres of boot space.
All Mercedes Benz Eqb variants have a seating capacity of 5.0.
All Mercedes Benz Eqb variants have a wheelbase of 2829 mm.
Mercedes Benz Eqb variant 250 Plus has a kerb weight of 2105 kg.
Mercedes Benz Eqb variant 350 4Matic has a kerb weight of 2165 kg.
All Mercedes Benz Eqb variants have 5.0 doors.
All Mercedes Benz Eqb variants come with Unknown tyres.
All Mercedes Benz Eqb variants come equipped with 6.0 airbags.
All Mercedes Benz Eqb variants come with a unknown touchscreen display.
Mercedes Benz Eqb variant 250 Plus includes Android Auto, Apple CarPlay connectivity features.
Mercedes Benz Eqb variant 350 4Matic includes Android Auto, Apple CarPlay connectivity features.
All Mercedes Benz Eqb variants feature a Full Digital digital cluster.
All Mercedes Benz Eqb variants offer a boot space of 495 Litres.
All Mercedes Benz Eqb variants have a top speed of 160 kmph.
All Mercedes Benz Eqb variants are powered by a Lithium-Ion Battery battery.
Mercedes Benz Eqb variant 250 Plus features a 70.5 kWh battery capacity.
Mercedes Benz Eqb variant 350 4Matic features a 66.5 kWh battery capacity.
Mercedes Benz Eqb variant 250 Plus has a 140 kW motor power.
Mercedes Benz Eqb variant 350 4Matic has a 215 kW motor power.
Mercedes Benz Eqb variant 250 Plus has a driving range of 464-535 km.
Mercedes Benz Eqb variant 350 4Matic has a driving range of 397-447 km.
Mercedes Benz Eqb variant 250 Plus requires 7.15 Hours for A.C charging.
Mercedes Benz Eqb variant 350 4Matic requires 6 Hours 45Mins for A.C charging.
Mercedes Benz Eqb variant 250 Plus requires 35 Min for D.C charging.
Mercedes Benz Eqb variant 350 4Matic requires 32 Min for D.C charging.
All Mercedes Benz Eqb variants come with a CCS-II charging port.
Mercedes Benz Eqb variant 250 Plus accelerates from 0-100 km/h in 8.9 s.
Mercedes Benz Eqb variant 350 4Matic accelerates from 0-100 km/h in 6.2 s.
All Mercedes Benz Eqb variants have All Windows anti-pinch power windows.
All Mercedes Benz Eqb variants come with Tilt & Telescopic steering adjustment.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Adjustable Steering.
All Mercedes Benz Eqb variants are equipped with Front & Rear parking sensors.
All Mercedes Benz Eqb variants come with Front & Rear USB charging ports.
All Mercedes Benz Eqb variants have a With Guidedlines rear camera.
All Mercedes Benz Eqb variants have Driver and Passenger seatbelt pretensioners and force limiters.
All Mercedes Benz Eqb variants include Front & Rear speakers.
All Mercedes Benz Eqb variants have Front electric adjustable seats.
All Mercedes Benz Eqb variants have a With Storage central console armrest.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqb have Rear Seat Headrest.
All Mercedes Benz Eqb variants come with a Panoramic sunroof.
All Mercedes Benz Eqb variants come with LED HIGH PERFORMANCE HEADLAMPS as additional features.