Porsche Taycan has 2 variants: 4S & Turbo.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Power Steering.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Air Conditioner.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Heater.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Automatic Climate Control.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Accessory Power Outlet.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Trunk Light.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Vanity Mirror.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Rear Reading Lamp.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Adjustable Headrest.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Rear Seat Centre Arm Rest.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Rear AC Vents.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Cruise Control.
Porsche Taycan variant with Real-Time Vehicle Tracking - 4S.
Porsche Taycan variant with Engine Start/Stop Button - 4S.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Voice Commands.
Porsche Taycan variant with Hands-Free Tailgate - Turbo.
Porsche Taycan variant without Hands-Free Tailgate - 4S.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have KeyLess Entry.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Follow Me Home Headlamps.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Tachometer.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Alloy Wheels.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Integrated Antenna.
Porsche Taycan variant with Projector Headlamps - 4S.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Automatic Headlamps.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have LED DRLs.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have LED Headlamps.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Anti-lock Braking System (ABS).
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Central Locking.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Driver Airbag.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Side Airbag.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Seat Belt Warning.
Porsche Taycan variant with Engine Immobilizer - Turbo.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Side Airbag-Rear.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Electronic Stability Control (ESC).
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Anti-Theft Device.
Porsche Taycan variant with Speed Alert - 4S.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Speed Sensing Auto Door Lock.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have ISOFIX Child Seat Mounts.
Porsche Taycan variant with Hill Assist - 4S.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Impact Sensing Auto Door Unlock.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have 360 View Camera.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Radio.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Bluetooth Connectivity.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Android Auto.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Apple CarPlay.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Height Adjustable Front Seat Belts.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Lumbar Support.
Porsche Taycan variant with Paddle Shifters - 4S.
Porsche Taycan variant with Electronic Multi-Tripmeter - Turbo.
Porsche Taycan variant with Digital Clock - Turbo.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Dual Tone Dashboard.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have LED Taillights.
Porsche Taycan variant with Electronic Brakeforce Distribution (EBD) - 4S.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Brake Assist.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Anti-Theft Alarm.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Door Ajar Warning.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Digital Odometer.
Porsche Taycan variant with Blind Spot Camera - Turbo.
Porsche Taycan variant with Heads-Up Display (HUD) - Turbo.
Porsche Taycan variant with Cooled Glovebox - 4S.
Porsche Taycan variant with Ventilated Seats - Turbo.
Porsche Taycan variant with Puddle Lamps - 4S.
Porsche Taycan variant with Hill Descent Control - 4S.
Porsche Taycan variant with Active noise cancellation - Turbo.
Porsche Taycan variant with Battery Saver - 4S.
Porsche Taycan variant with Leather wrap gear-shift selector - Turbo.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Blind Spot Monitor.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Tailgate Ajar Warning.
Porsche Taycan variant with Remote Trunk Opener - Turbo.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Regenerative Braking.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Fast Charging.
Porsche Taycan variant with Traction Control - 4S.
Porsche Taycan variant with Rear Entertainment System - Turbo.
Porsche Taycan variant with Leather Seats - Turbo.
Porsche Taycan variant with Internal Storage - Turbo.
Porsche Taycan variant with Find My Car location - Turbo.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Height Adjustable Driver Seat.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Leather Wrapped Steering Wheel.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Glove Box.
Porsche Taycan variant with Adjustable Headlamps - Turbo.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Passenger Airbag.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Day & Night Rear View Mirror.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Tyre Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS).
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Touchscreen.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Child Safety Locks.
Porsche Taycan variant with Rear Spoiler - Turbo.
Porsche Taycan variant with Rain Sensing Wiper - 4S.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Air Quality Control.
Porsche Taycan variant with Navigation System - Turbo.
Porsche Taycan variant with Smart Access Card Entry - Turbo.
Porsche Taycan variant with Curtain Airbag - 4S.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Usb Ports.
Porsche Taycan variant without Gear Shift Indicator - Turbo.
Porsche Taycan variant without Luggage Hook & Net - Turbo.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have LED Fog Lamps.
Porsche Taycan variant with Power Boot - Turbo.
Porsche Taycan variant with Fog Lights - Front - Turbo.
Porsche Taycan variant with Integrated 2DIN Audio - Turbo.
Porsche Taycan variant with USB & Auxiliary input - Turbo.
Porsche Taycan variant without Rear Curtain - Turbo.
Porsche Taycan variant with Audio System Remote Control - Turbo.
Porsche Taycan variant with Smart Key Band - Turbo.
Porsche Taycan variant 4S delivers a max power of 590 Brake Horsepower (BHP).
Porsche Taycan variant Turbo delivers a max power of 872 Brake Horsepower (BHP).
Porsche Taycan variant 4S has a max torque of 695 Newton meters.
Porsche Taycan variant Turbo has a max torque of 650 Newton meters.
All Porsche Taycan variants have a Automatic transmission.
Porsche Taycan variant 4S comes with a 1-Speed gearbox.
Porsche Taycan variant Turbo comes with a 2-Speed gearbox.
All Porsche Taycan variants have a All-Wheel Drive (AWD) drive type.
All Porsche Taycan variants run on Electric.
All Porsche Taycan variants comply with ZEV emission norms.
All Porsche Taycan variants come with Electric steering.
Porsche Taycan variant Turbo has a turning radius of 12m.
Porsche Taycan variant 4S has Disc front brakes.
Porsche Taycan variant Turbo has Ventilated Disc front brakes.
Porsche Taycan variant 4S has Disc rear brakes.
Porsche Taycan variant Turbo has Ventilated Disc rear brakes.
All Porsche Taycan variants have a length of 4974 mm.
All Porsche Taycan variants have a width of 2144 mm.
All Porsche Taycan variants have a height of 1395 mm.
Porsche Taycan variant 4S offers 407 Litres of boot space.
Porsche Taycan variant Turbo offers 446 Litres of boot space.
All Porsche Taycan variants have a seating capacity of 5.0.
Porsche Taycan variant 4S has a wheelbase of 2675 mm.
Porsche Taycan variant Turbo has a wheelbase of 2702 mm.
All Porsche Taycan variants have a kerb weight of 2245 kg.
All Porsche Taycan variants have a gross weight of 2880 kg.
Porsche Taycan variant 4S has 4.0 doors.
Porsche Taycan variant Turbo has 5.0 doors.
Porsche Taycan variant 4S features Unknown tyres.
Porsche Taycan variant Turbo features Tubeless Radial tyres.
Porsche Taycan variant Turbo is equipped with Tubeless,Radial Inch wheels.
All Porsche Taycan variants come equipped with 8.0 airbags.
All Porsche Taycan variants come with a 10.9 inch touchscreen display.
Porsche Taycan variant Turbo features 21.0 speakers.
Porsche Taycan variant 4S includes Android Auto, Apple CarPlay connectivity features.
Porsche Taycan variant Turbo includes Android Auto connectivity features.
Porsche Taycan variant 4S is equipped with Leather upholstery.
Porsche Taycan variant 4S provides 407 Litres boot space.
Porsche Taycan variant 4S has a top speed of 250 kmph.
Porsche Taycan variant Turbo has a top speed of 260 kmph.
Porsche Taycan variant Turbo features a front tread of 1280 mm.
All Porsche Taycan variants use a Rack & Pinion steering gear type.
All Porsche Taycan variants are equipped with a Permanent Magnet Synchronous Motor motor type.
All Porsche Taycan variants are powered by a Lithium-Ion Battery battery.
Porsche Taycan variant Turbo has a Smart trunk opener.
Porsche Taycan variant 4S features Active Suspension Management shock absorbers.
Porsche Taycan variant Turbo features Porsche Active Suspension Management shock absorbers.
All Porsche Taycan variants come with a 93.4 kWh battery capacity.
Porsche Taycan variant 4S has a 340 kW motor power.
Porsche Taycan variant 4S has a driving range of 705 km.
Porsche Taycan variant Turbo has a driving range of 683 km.
Porsche Taycan variant 4S requires 9 Hours at 11kW (0-100%) for A.C charging.
Porsche Taycan variant 4S requires 33 Min at 150kW (10-80%) for D.C charging.
All Porsche Taycan variants come with a CCS-II charging port.
Porsche Taycan variant 4S accelerates from 0-100 km/h in 3.7 s.
Porsche Taycan variant Turbo accelerates from 0-100 km/h in 2.7 s.
Porsche Taycan variant 4S takes 33 Min at 150kW (10-80%) to charge.
Porsche Taycan variant 4S has All Windows anti-pinch power windows.
All Porsche Taycan variants have a laden ground clearance of 127 mm mm.
All Porsche Taycan variants have the Air suspension front suspension.
All Porsche Taycan variants have the Air suspension rear suspension.
Porsche Taycan variant Turbo has Adjustable Steering steering adjustment.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Adjustable Steering.
All Porsche Taycan variants are equipped with Front & Rear parking sensors.
All Porsche Taycan variants come with Front & Rear USB charging ports.
Porsche Taycan variant 4S has Front fog lights.
Porsche Taycan variant 4S has a With Guidedlines rear camera.
Porsche Taycan variant 4S has Driver and Passenger seatbelt pretensioners and force limiters.
All Porsche Taycan variants include Front & Rear speakers.
Porsche Taycan variant Turbo has Front electric adjustable seats.
Porsche Taycan variant Turbo has a 40:20:40 Split foldable rear seat.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Central Console Armrest.
All variants of Porsche Taycan have Rear Seat Headrest.
Porsche Taycan variant Turbo offers a Optional sunroof.
Porsche Taycan variant Turbo has 6 drive modes.