Porsche Macan Ev has 3 variants: Standard, 4S & Turbo.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Power Steering.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Air Conditioner.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Heater.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Accessory Power Outlet.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Trunk Light.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Vanity Mirror.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Rear Reading Lamp.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Adjustable Headrest.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Rear Seat Centre Arm Rest.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Rear AC Vents.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Cruise Control.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Voice Commands.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev do not have Hands-Free Tailgate.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have KeyLess Entry.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Follow Me Home Headlamps.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Tachometer.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Alloy Wheels.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Integrated Antenna.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Automatic Headlamps.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have LED DRLs.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have LED Headlamps.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Anti-lock Braking System (ABS).
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Central Locking.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Driver Airbag.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Side Airbag.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Seat Belt Warning.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Engine Immobilizer.
Porsche Macan Ev variant without E-Call & I-Call - Turbo.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Side Airbag-Rear.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Electronic Stability Control (ESC).
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Anti-Theft Device.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Speed Alert.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Speed Sensing Auto Door Lock.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have ISOFIX Child Seat Mounts.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Hill Assist.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Impact Sensing Auto Door Unlock.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have 360 View Camera.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Radio.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Bluetooth Connectivity.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Android Auto.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Apple CarPlay.
Porsche Macan Ev variants with Geo-fence Alert - Standard & Turbo.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Height Adjustable Front Seat Belts.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Lumbar Support.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Dual Tone Dashboard.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have LED Taillights.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Electronic Brakeforce Distribution (EBD).
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Brake Assist.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Anti-Theft Alarm.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Door Ajar Warning.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Digital Odometer.
Porsche Macan Ev variants with SOS / Emergency Assistance - Standard & Turbo.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Cooled Glovebox.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Glove Box light.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Heated Outside Rear View Mirror.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Tailgate Ajar Warning.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Regenerative Braking.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Fast Charging.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Traction Control.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Acoustic Vehicle Alert System.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Height Adjustable Driver Seat.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Rear Window Defogger.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Leather Wrapped Steering Wheel.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Glove Box.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Adjustable Headlamps.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Outside Rear View Mirror Turn Indicators.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Passenger Airbag.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Day & Night Rear View Mirror.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Tyre Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS).
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Touchscreen.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Rear Window Wiper.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Rear Window Washer.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Child Safety Locks.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Rear Spoiler.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Rain Sensing Wiper.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Air Quality Control.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Roof Rails.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Curtain Airbag.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Usb Ports.
Porsche Macan Ev variants without Gear Shift Indicator - Standard & 4S.
Porsche Macan Ev variant with Luggage Hook & Net - Turbo.
Porsche Macan Ev variants without Luggage Hook & Net - Standard & 4S.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have LED Fog Lamps.
Porsche Macan Ev variants without Rear Curtain - Standard & 4S.
Porsche Macan Ev variant Standard delivers a max power of 402 Brake Horsepower (BHP).
Porsche Macan Ev variant 4S delivers a max power of 509 Brake Horsepower (BHP).
Porsche Macan Ev variant Turbo delivers a max power of 608 Brake Horsepower (BHP).
Porsche Macan Ev variant Standard has a max torque of 650 Newton meters.
Porsche Macan Ev variant 4S has a max torque of 820 Newton meters.
Porsche Macan Ev variant Turbo has a max torque of 1130 Newton meters.
All Porsche Macan Ev variants have a Automatic transmission.
All Porsche Macan Ev variants come with a 1-Speed gearbox.
All Porsche Macan Ev variants have a All-Wheel Drive (AWD) drive type.
All Porsche Macan Ev variants run on Electric.
All Porsche Macan Ev variants comply with ZEV emission norms.
All Porsche Macan Ev variants have a length of 4784 mm.
All Porsche Macan Ev variants have a width of 1938 mm.
All Porsche Macan Ev variants have a height of 1622 mm.
All Porsche Macan Ev variants offer 540 Litres of boot space.
All Porsche Macan Ev variants have a seating capacity of 5.0.
All Porsche Macan Ev variants have 5.0 doors.
All Porsche Macan Ev variants come with a Automatic boot opening mechanism.
All Porsche Macan Ev variants come with Unknown tyres.
All Porsche Macan Ev variants come equipped with 8.0 airbags.
All Porsche Macan Ev variants come with Android Auto, Apple CarPlay connectivity options.
All Porsche Macan Ev variants are powered by a Lithium-Ion Battery battery.
All Porsche Macan Ev variants come with a 100 kWh battery capacity.
Porsche Macan Ev variants - Standard & Turbo offer the same range of 624 km.
Porsche Macan Ev variant 4S has a driving range of 619 km.
All Porsche Macan Ev variants take 10 Hours at 11kW (0-100%) to charge using an A.C charger.
All Porsche Macan Ev variants take 21 Min at 270kW (10-80%) to charge using a D.C charger.
All Porsche Macan Ev variants come with a CCS-II charging port.
All Porsche Macan Ev variants accelerate from 0-100 km/h in 5.2 s.
All Porsche Macan Ev variants take 21 Min at 270kW (10-80%) to charge.
All Porsche Macan Ev variants have All Windows anti-pinch power windows.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Adjustable Steering.
All Porsche Macan Ev variants are equipped with Front & Rear parking sensors.
All Porsche Macan Ev variants come with Front & Rear USB charging ports.
All Porsche Macan Ev variants have a With Guidedlines rear camera.
All Porsche Macan Ev variants have Driver and Passenger seatbelt pretensioners and force limiters.
All Porsche Macan Ev variants include Front & Rear speakers.
All Porsche Macan Ev variants have a 60:40 Split foldable rear seat.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Central Console Armrest.
All variants of Porsche Macan Ev have Rear Seat Headrest.