Porsche Cayenne has 2 variants: STD & GTS.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Power Steering.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Air Conditioner.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Heater.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Automatic Climate Control.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Accessory Power Outlet.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Trunk Light.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Vanity Mirror.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Adjustable Headrest.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Rear Seat Centre Arm Rest.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Cruise Control.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Engine Start/Stop Button.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Voice Commands.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Chrome Grille.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have KeyLess Entry.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Follow Me Home Headlamps.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Tachometer.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Alloy Wheels.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Integrated Antenna.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Projector Headlamps.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Automatic Headlamps.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have LED DRLs.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have LED Headlamps.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Anti-lock Braking System (ABS).
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Central Locking.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Driver Airbag.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Side Airbag.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Seat Belt Warning.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Engine Immobilizer.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne do not have Side Airbag-Rear.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Anti-Theft Device.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Speed Alert.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Speed Sensing Auto Door Lock.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have ISOFIX Child Seat Mounts.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Impact Sensing Auto Door Unlock.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Radio.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Wireless Phone Charging.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Bluetooth Connectivity.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Android Auto.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Apple CarPlay.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Height Adjustable Front Seat Belts.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Paddle Shifters.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Digital Clock.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have LED Taillights.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Anti-Theft Alarm.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Door Ajar Warning.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Leather wrap gear-shift selector.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Compass.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Height Adjustable Driver Seat.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Adjustable Headlamps.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Passenger Airbag.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Day & Night Rear View Mirror.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Tyre Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS).
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Touchscreen.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Chrome Garnish.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Rear Spoiler.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Air Quality Control.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Tinted Glass.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Navigation System.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Usb Ports.
Porsche Cayenne variant without Gear Shift Indicator - GTS.
Porsche Cayenne variant without Luggage Hook & Net - GTS.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Low Fuel Warning Light.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Heated Wing Mirror.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Power Boot.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Integrated 2DIN Audio.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have USB & Auxiliary input.
Porsche Cayenne variant without Rear Curtain - GTS.
All Porsche Cayenne variants use the 3.0-litre turbocharged V6 engine engine.
All Porsche Cayenne variants have a displacement of 2894  cubic centimeters.
All Porsche Cayenne variants produce a maximum power of 348.66 Brake Horsepower (BHP).
All Porsche Cayenne variants produce a maximum torque of 500 Newton meters.
All Porsche Cayenne variants have 4.0 valves per cylinder.
All Porsche Cayenne variants have a Automatic transmission.
All Porsche Cayenne variants have 6.0 cylinders.
All Porsche Cayenne variants come with a 8-Speed gearbox.
All Porsche Cayenne variants have a All-Wheel Drive (AWD) drive type.
All Porsche Cayenne variants run on Petrol.
All Porsche Cayenne variants comply with BS VI 2.0 emission norms.
All Porsche Cayenne variants come with Electric steering.
All Porsche Cayenne variants have Disc front brakes.
All Porsche Cayenne variants have Disc rear brakes.
All Porsche Cayenne variants have a length of 4930 mm.
All Porsche Cayenne variants have a width of 1983 mm.
All Porsche Cayenne variants have a height of 1698 mm.
All Porsche Cayenne variants offer 770 Litres of boot space.
All Porsche Cayenne variants have a seating capacity of 4.0.
All Porsche Cayenne variants have a wheelbase of 2500 mm.
All Porsche Cayenne variants come with Tubeless Radial tyres.
All Porsche Cayenne variants come equipped with 6.0 airbags.
All Porsche Cayenne variants come with 10.0 speakers.
Porsche Cayenne variant STD features Electric as a secondary fuel type.
All Porsche Cayenne variants come with Android Auto, Apple CarPlay connectivity options.
All Porsche Cayenne variants have a top speed of 248 kmph.
All Porsche Cayenne variants accelerate from 0-100 kmph in 6.0 s.
All Porsche Cayenne variants accelerate from 0-100 kmph in 6.0 s.
All Porsche Cayenne variants use a Rack & Pinion steering gear type.
Porsche Cayenne variant STD provides a mileage of 10.8 kmpl.
All Porsche Cayenne variants provide a highway mileage of 10.7 kmpl.
All Porsche Cayenne variants have a fuel tank capacity of 75 Litres.
All Porsche Cayenne variants have the Air suspension front suspension.
All Porsche Cayenne variants have the Air suspension rear suspension.
All Porsche Cayenne variants come with Tilt & Telescopic steering adjustment.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Adjustable Steering.
All Porsche Cayenne variants are equipped with Front & Rear parking sensors.
All Porsche Cayenne variants come with Front USB charging ports.
All Porsche Cayenne variants include Front & Rear speakers.
All Porsche Cayenne variants have Front & Rear electric adjustable seats.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Central Console Armrest.
All variants of Porsche Cayenne have Rear Seat Headrest.
All Porsche Cayenne variants come with Sound Package Plus with 10 Speakers and a total Output of 150 Watts as additional features.