Rolls Royce Phantom has 2 variants: Series II & Extended Wheelbase.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Power Steering.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Air Conditioner.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Heater.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Automatic Climate Control.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Accessory Power Outlet.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Trunk Light.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Vanity Mirror.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Rear Reading Lamp.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Adjustable Headrest.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Rear Seat Centre Arm Rest.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Rear AC Vents.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Cruise Control.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Engine Start/Stop Button.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Voice Commands.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Chrome Grille.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have KeyLess Entry.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Follow Me Home Headlamps.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Tachometer.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom do not have Wheel Covers.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Alloy Wheels.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Integrated Antenna.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Projector Headlamps.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom do not have Automatic Headlamps.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have LED DRLs.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Anti-lock Braking System (ABS).
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Central Locking.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Driver Airbag.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Side Airbag.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Seat Belt Warning.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Engine Immobilizer.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Side Airbag-Rear.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Electronic Stability Control (ESC).
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Anti-Theft Device.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Speed Alert.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Speed Sensing Auto Door Lock.
Rolls Royce Phantom variant with ISOFIX Child Seat Mounts - Series II.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Hill Assist.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Impact Sensing Auto Door Unlock.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have 360 View Camera.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Radio.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Bluetooth Connectivity.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Height Adjustable Front Seat Belts.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Lumbar Support.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom do not have Paddle Shifters.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Electronic Multi-Tripmeter.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Digital Clock.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Outside Temperature Display.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Dual Tone Dashboard.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom do not have Power Antenna.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have LED Taillights.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Electronic Brakeforce Distribution (EBD).
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Brake Assist.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Anti-Theft Alarm.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Door Ajar Warning.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Digital Odometer.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Cooled Glovebox.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Ventilated Seats.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom do not have Hill Descent Control.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Active noise cancellation.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom do not have Battery Saver.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Leather wrap gear-shift selector.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Smoke Headlamps.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Blind Spot Monitor.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Tailgate Ajar Warning.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Remote Trunk Opener.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom do not have Lane Change Indicator.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom do not have Cornering Headlamps.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Xenon Headlamps.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Traction Control.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Acoustic Vehicle Alert System.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom do not have Rear Entertainment System.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Leather Seats.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Driving Experience Control Eco.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Fog Lights - Rear.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom do not have Internal Storage.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom do not have Super Charge.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Height Adjustable Driver Seat.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Rear Window Defogger.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Leather Wrapped Steering Wheel.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Glove Box.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Adjustable Headlamps.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Outside Rear View Mirror Turn Indicators.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Passenger Airbag.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Day & Night Rear View Mirror.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Tyre Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS).
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Touchscreen.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Rear Window Wiper.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Rear Window Washer.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Chrome Garnish.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Child Safety Locks.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Rear Spoiler.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Rain Sensing Wiper.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Air Quality Control.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Tinted Glass.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Folding Table in The Rear.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Navigation System.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Smart Access Card Entry.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Fabric Upholstery.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Roof Rails.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Cigarette Lighter.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Roof Carrier.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Side Stepper.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Curtain Airbag.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Usb Ports.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Gear Shift Indicator.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Luggage Hook & Net.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Low Fuel Warning Light.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Heated Wing Mirror.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Power Boot.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Fog Lights - Front.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Integrated 2DIN Audio.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have USB & Auxiliary input.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Rear Curtain.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom do not have Audio System Remote Control.
All Rolls Royce Phantom variants use the V12 Petrol Engine engine.
All Rolls Royce Phantom variants have a displacement of 6749  cubic centimeters.
All Rolls Royce Phantom variants produce a maximum power of 563 Brake Horsepower (BHP) at 5000 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
All Rolls Royce Phantom variants produce a maximum torque of 900 Newton meters at 1700 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
All Rolls Royce Phantom variants have 4.0 valves per cylinder.
All Rolls Royce Phantom variants have a Automatic transmission.
All Rolls Royce Phantom variants have 12.0 cylinders.
All Rolls Royce Phantom variants come with a 8-Speed gearbox.
All Rolls Royce Phantom variants have a Rear-Wheel Drive (RWD) drive type.
All Rolls Royce Phantom variants run on Petrol.
All Rolls Royce Phantom variants comply with BS VI emission norms.
All Rolls Royce Phantom variants come with Power steering.
Rolls Royce Phantom variant Series II has a turning radius of 6.9m.
Rolls Royce Phantom variant Extended Wheelbase has a turning radius of 6.8m.
All Rolls Royce Phantom variants have Ventilated Disc front brakes.
All Rolls Royce Phantom variants have Ventilated Disc rear brakes.
Rolls Royce Phantom variant Series II has a length of 5762 mm.
Rolls Royce Phantom variant Extended Wheelbase has a length of 5982 mm.
All Rolls Royce Phantom variants have a width of 2018 mm.
Rolls Royce Phantom variant Series II has a height of 1646 mm.
Rolls Royce Phantom variant Extended Wheelbase has a height of 1656 mm.
All Rolls Royce Phantom variants offer 460 Litres of boot space.
All Rolls Royce Phantom variants have a seating capacity of 5.0.
Rolls Royce Phantom variant Series II has an unladen ground clearance of 150 mm.
Rolls Royce Phantom variant Extended Wheelbase has an unladen ground clearance of 164 mm.
Rolls Royce Phantom variant Series II has a wheelbase of 3552 mm.
Rolls Royce Phantom variant Extended Wheelbase has a wheelbase of 3772 mm.
Rolls Royce Phantom variant Series II has a kerb weight of 2635 kg.
Rolls Royce Phantom variant Extended Wheelbase has a kerb weight of 2745 kg.
Rolls Royce Phantom variant Series II has a gross weight of 3110 kg.
Rolls Royce Phantom variant Extended Wheelbase has a gross weight of 3170 kg.
All Rolls Royce Phantom variants have 4.0 doors.
All Rolls Royce Phantom variants have tyres of size 255/50 R21,285/45 R21.
All Rolls Royce Phantom variants come with Tubeless Radial tyres.
All Rolls Royce Phantom variants come equipped with 9.0 airbags.
All Rolls Royce Phantom variants have a top speed of 250 kmph.
Rolls Royce Phantom variant Series II features a front tread of 1605 mm.
Rolls Royce Phantom variant Extended Wheelbase features a front tread of 1485 mm.
Rolls Royce Phantom variant Series II accelerates from 0-100 kmph in 5.3 s.
Rolls Royce Phantom variant Extended Wheelbase accelerates from 0-100 kmph in 5.4 s.
Rolls Royce Phantom variant Series II accelerates from 0-100 kmph in 5.3 s.
Rolls Royce Phantom variant Extended Wheelbase accelerates from 0-100 kmph in 5.4 s.
All Rolls Royce Phantom variants come with a DOHC valve configuration.
All Rolls Royce Phantom variants use a Rack & Pinion steering gear type.
All Rolls Royce Phantom variants have a rear tread of 1676 mm.
All Rolls Royce Phantom variants use a Direct Injection (Di) fuel supply system.
All Rolls Royce Phantom variants feature a Smart trunk opener.
All Rolls Royce Phantom variants have All Windows anti-pinch power windows.
All Rolls Royce Phantom variants offer a mileage of 9.8 kmpl.
All Rolls Royce Phantom variants have a fuel tank capacity of 100 Litres.
All Rolls Royce Phantom variants come with Tilt Steering steering adjustment.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Adjustable Steering.
All Rolls Royce Phantom variants are equipped with Front & Rear parking sensors.
All Rolls Royce Phantom variants come with Front & Rear USB charging ports.
All Rolls Royce Phantom variants have a With Guidedlines rear camera.
All Rolls Royce Phantom variants have Driver and Passenger seatbelt pretensioners and force limiters.
All Rolls Royce Phantom variants include Front & Rear speakers.
All Rolls Royce Phantom variants have Front & Rear electric adjustable seats.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom do not have Foldable Rear Seat.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Central Console Armrest.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Turbo Charger.
All Rolls Royce Phantom variants come with Driver knee airbags.
All Rolls Royce Phantom variants have Full autonomous parking.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Rear Seat Headrest.
All variants of Rolls Royce Phantom have Sunroof.