Rolls Royce Ghost has 2 variants: V12 & V12 Extended.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Power Steering.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Air Conditioner.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Heater.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Automatic Climate Control.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Accessory Power Outlet.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Trunk Light.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Vanity Mirror.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Rear Reading Lamp.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Adjustable Headrest.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Rear Seat Centre Arm Rest.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Rear AC Vents.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Cruise Control.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Real-Time Vehicle Tracking.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Engine Start/Stop Button.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Voice Commands.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Hands-Free Tailgate.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Chrome Grille.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Tachometer.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost do not have Wheel Covers.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Alloy Wheels.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Integrated Antenna.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Automatic Headlamps.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have LED DRLs.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have LED Headlamps.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Driver Airbag.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Side Airbag.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Seat Belt Warning.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost do not have Side Airbag-Rear.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Anti-Theft Device.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have ISOFIX Child Seat Mounts.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Hill Assist.
Rolls Royce Ghost variant with Radio - V12.
Rolls Royce Ghost variant with Wireless Phone Charging - V12.
Rolls Royce Ghost variant with Bluetooth Connectivity - V12.
Rolls Royce Ghost variant with Android Auto - V12.
Rolls Royce Ghost variant with Apple CarPlay - V12.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Height Adjustable Front Seat Belts.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Lumbar Support.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Paddle Shifters.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Electronic Multi-Tripmeter.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Digital Clock.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Outside Temperature Display.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost do not have Dual Tone Dashboard.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have LED Taillights.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Brake Assist.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Anti-Theft Alarm.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Door Ajar Warning.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Digital Odometer.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Blind Spot Camera.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Heads-Up Display (HUD).
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Cooled Glovebox.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Ventilated Seats.
Rolls Royce Ghost variant with Active noise cancellation - V12 Extended.
Rolls Royce Ghost variant without Active noise cancellation - V12.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Cornering Foglamps.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Leather wrap gear-shift selector.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Tailgate Ajar Warning.
Rolls Royce Ghost variant with Compass - V12.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Lane Change Indicator.
Rolls Royce Ghost variant with Wi-Fi Connectivity - V12.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Cornering Headlamps.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Traction Control.
Rolls Royce Ghost variant with Rear Entertainment System - V12.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Leather Seats.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Driving Experience Control Eco.
Rolls Royce Ghost variant with MirrorLink - V12.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Fog Lights - Rear.
Rolls Royce Ghost variant with Internal Storage - V12.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Find My Car location.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Height Adjustable Driver Seat.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Rear Window Defogger.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Leather Wrapped Steering Wheel.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Glove Box.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Adjustable Headlamps.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Outside Rear View Mirror Turn Indicators.
Rolls Royce Ghost variant with Passenger Airbag - V12 Extended.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Tyre Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS).
Rolls Royce Ghost variant with Touchscreen - V12.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Rear Window Wiper.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Rear Window Washer.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Chrome Garnish.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Child Safety Locks.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Rear Spoiler.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Rain Sensing Wiper.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Air Quality Control.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Tinted Glass.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Folding Table in The Rear.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Navigation System.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Smart Access Card Entry.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Roof Rails.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Cigarette Lighter.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Roof Carrier.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Side Stepper.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Dual Tone Body Colour.
Rolls Royce Ghost variant with Usb Ports - V12.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Gear Shift Indicator.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Luggage Hook & Net.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have LED Fog Lamps.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Low Fuel Warning Light.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Heated Wing Mirror.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Power Boot.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Fog Lights - Front.
Rolls Royce Ghost variant with Integrated 2DIN Audio - V12.
Rolls Royce Ghost variant with USB & Auxiliary input - V12.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Rear Curtain.
Rolls Royce Ghost variant with Audio System Remote Control - V12.
All Rolls Royce Ghost variants use the 6.7 L V12 engine.
All Rolls Royce Ghost variants have a displacement of 6750  cubic centimeters.
All Rolls Royce Ghost variants produce a maximum power of 563 Brake Horsepower (BHP) at 5250 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
All Rolls Royce Ghost variants produce a maximum torque of 820 Newton meters at 1500 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
All Rolls Royce Ghost variants have 4.0 valves per cylinder.
All Rolls Royce Ghost variants have a Automatic transmission.
All Rolls Royce Ghost variants have 12.0 cylinders.
All Rolls Royce Ghost variants come with a 8-Speed-AT gearbox.
All Rolls Royce Ghost variants have a All-Wheel Drive (AWD) drive type.
All Rolls Royce Ghost variants run on Petrol.
All Rolls Royce Ghost variants comply with BS VI emission norms.
Rolls Royce Ghost variant V12 has a length of 5457 mm.
Rolls Royce Ghost variant V12 Extended has a length of 5627 mm.
All Rolls Royce Ghost variants have a width of 1948 mm.
Rolls Royce Ghost variant V12 has a height of 1550 mm.
Rolls Royce Ghost variant V12 Extended has a height of 1552 mm.
All Rolls Royce Ghost variants offer 490 Litres of boot space.
All Rolls Royce Ghost variants have a seating capacity of 5.0.
Rolls Royce Ghost variant V12 has a wheelbase of 3295 mm.
Rolls Royce Ghost variant V12 Extended has a wheelbase of 3465 mm.
Rolls Royce Ghost variant V12 has a kerb weight of 2435 kg.
Rolls Royce Ghost variant V12 Extended has a kerb weight of 2525 kg.
All Rolls Royce Ghost variants have 5.0 doors.
All Rolls Royce Ghost variants come with Unknown tyres.
All Rolls Royce Ghost variants come equipped with 6.0 airbags.
Rolls Royce Ghost variant V12 includes Android Auto connectivity features.
All Rolls Royce Ghost variants have a top speed of 250 kmph.
All Rolls Royce Ghost variants have a front tread of 1280 mm.
Rolls Royce Ghost variant V12 accelerates from 0-100 kmph in 5.0 s.
Rolls Royce Ghost variant V12 Extended accelerates from 0-100 kmph in 4.9 s.
Rolls Royce Ghost variant V12 accelerates from 0-100 kmph in 5.0 s.
Rolls Royce Ghost variant V12 Extended accelerates from 0-100 kmph in 4.9 s.
All Rolls Royce Ghost variants use a Direct Injection (Di) fuel supply system.
All Rolls Royce Ghost variants feature a Smart trunk opener.
All Rolls Royce Ghost variants provide a highway mileage of 6 kmpl.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Adjustable Steering.
All Rolls Royce Ghost variants are equipped with Front & Rear parking sensors.
All Rolls Royce Ghost variants come with Front & Rear USB charging ports.
Rolls Royce Ghost variant V12 has Front & Rear speakers.
All Rolls Royce Ghost variants have Front & Rear electric adjustable seats.
All Rolls Royce Ghost variants have a 60:40 Split foldable rear seat.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Central Console Armrest.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Turbo Charger.
All Rolls Royce Ghost variants have Semi autonomous parking.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Rear Seat Headrest.
All variants of Rolls Royce Ghost have Sunroof.