Toyota Vellfire has 2 variants: Hi & VIP Executive Lounge.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Power Steering.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Air Conditioner.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Heater.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Automatic Climate Control.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Accessory Power Outlet.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Vanity Mirror.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Rear Reading Lamp.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Adjustable Headrest.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Rear AC Vents.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Cruise Control.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Real-Time Vehicle Tracking.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Engine Start/Stop Button.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Voice Commands.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Hands-Free Tailgate.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Chrome Grille.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have KeyLess Entry.
Toyota Vellfire variant with Idle Start-Stop System - Hi.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Follow Me Home Headlamps.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Tachometer.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Alloy Wheels.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Integrated Antenna.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Automatic Headlamps.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have LED DRLs.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have LED Headlamps.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Anti-lock Braking System (ABS).
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Central Locking.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Driver Airbag.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Side Airbag.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Seat Belt Warning.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Engine Immobilizer.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have E-Call & I-Call.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Remote AC On/Off.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire do not have Side Airbag-Rear.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Electronic Stability Control (ESC).
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Anti-Theft Device.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Speed Alert.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Speed Sensing Auto Door Lock.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Hill Assist.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Impact Sensing Auto Door Unlock.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Radio.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Wireless Phone Charging.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Bluetooth Connectivity.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Android Auto.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Apple CarPlay.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Live Location.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Over the Air (OTA) Updates.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Over Speeding Alert.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Remote Door Lock/Unlock.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Geo-fence Alert.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Height Adjustable Front Seat Belts.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Dual Tone Dashboard.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have LED Taillights.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Electronic Brakeforce Distribution (EBD).
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Brake Assist.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Anti-Theft Alarm.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Door Ajar Warning.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Digital Odometer.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Remote Immobiliser.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have SOS / Emergency Assistance.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Heads-Up Display (HUD).
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Lane Keep Assist.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Adaptive Cruise Control.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Adaptive High Beam Assist.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Unauthorised Vehicle entry.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Cooled Glovebox.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Navigation with Live Traffic.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Send POI to Vehicle From App.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Ventilated Seats.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Hill Descent Control.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Rear Window Sunblind.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Leather wrap gear-shift selector.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Blind Spot Monitor.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Live Weather.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Remote Vehicle Ignition Start/Stop.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Remote Boot Open.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Tailgate Ajar Warning.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Remote Vehicle Status Check.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have SOS Button.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Save Route/Place.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Regenerative Braking.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Traction Control.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have RSA.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Crash Notification.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Rear Entertainment System.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Height Adjustable Driver Seat.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Rear Window Defogger.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Leather Wrapped Steering Wheel.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Glove Box.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Adjustable Headlamps.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Outside Rear View Mirror Turn Indicators.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Passenger Airbag.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Day & Night Rear View Mirror.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Tyre Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS).
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Touchscreen.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Rear Window Wiper.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Rear Window Washer.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Chrome Garnish.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Rear Spoiler.
Toyota Vellfire variants with Rain Sensing Wiper - Hi & VIP Executive Lounge.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Air Quality Control.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Tinted Glass.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Rear Touchscreen.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Smart Access Card Entry.
Toyota Vellfire variant with Roof Rails - VIP Executive Lounge.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Curtain Airbag.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Usb Ports.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Integrated 2DIN Audio.
All Toyota Vellfire variants use the 2.5-litre a Hybrid engine.
All Toyota Vellfire variants have a displacement of 2487  cubic centimeters.
All Toyota Vellfire variants produce a maximum power of 190.42 Brake Horsepower (BHP) at 6000 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
All Toyota Vellfire variants produce a maximum torque of 240 Newton meters at 4296 to 4500 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
All Toyota Vellfire variants have 4.0 valves per cylinder.
All Toyota Vellfire variants have a Automatic transmission.
All Toyota Vellfire variants have 4.0 cylinders.
All Toyota Vellfire variants come with a CVT gearbox.
All Toyota Vellfire variants have a All-Wheel Drive (AWD) drive type.
All Toyota Vellfire variants run on Petrol.
All Toyota Vellfire variants comply with BS VI 2.0 emission norms.
All Toyota Vellfire variants come with Electric steering.
All Toyota Vellfire variants have a turning radius of 5.9m.
All Toyota Vellfire variants have Disc front brakes.
All Toyota Vellfire variants have Disc rear brakes.
All Toyota Vellfire variants have a length of 5005 mm.
All Toyota Vellfire variants have a width of 1850 mm.
All Toyota Vellfire variants have a height of 1950 mm.
All Toyota Vellfire variants offer 148 Litres of boot space.
All Toyota Vellfire variants have a seating capacity of 7.0.
All Toyota Vellfire variants have a wheelbase of 3000 mm.
Toyota Vellfire variant Hi has 5.0 doors.
Toyota Vellfire variant VIP Executive Lounge has 4.0 doors.
All Toyota Vellfire variants come with a Electronic boot opening mechanism.
All Toyota Vellfire variants have tyres of size 225/55 R19.
All Toyota Vellfire variants come with Tyre Type tyres.
All Toyota Vellfire variants come equipped with 6.0 airbags.
Toyota Vellfire variant VIP Executive Lounge has a Global NCAP rating of 4 Star.
All Toyota Vellfire variants come with a 13.97 inch touchscreen display.
All Toyota Vellfire variants come with 15.0 speakers.
All Toyota Vellfire variants use Electric as a secondary fuel type.
All Toyota Vellfire variants come with 19 Inch front alloy wheels.
All Toyota Vellfire variants come with 19 Inch rear alloy wheels.
All Toyota Vellfire variants come with Android Auto, Apple CarPlay connectivity options.
All Toyota Vellfire variants come with Leather upholstery.
All Toyota Vellfire variants have a top speed of 170 kmph.
All Toyota Vellfire variants use a Rack & Pinion steering gear type.
All Toyota Vellfire variants have All Windows anti-pinch power windows.
All Toyota Vellfire variants provide a highway mileage of 18.28 kmpl.
All Toyota Vellfire variants have a fuel tank capacity of 60 Litres.
All Toyota Vellfire variants have the MacPherson Strut suspension front suspension.
All Toyota Vellfire variants have the Double wishbone suspension rear suspension.
All Toyota Vellfire variants come with Tilt & Telescopic steering adjustment.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Adjustable Steering.
All Toyota Vellfire variants are equipped with Front & Rear parking sensors.
All Toyota Vellfire variants come with Front & Rear USB charging ports.
All Toyota Vellfire variants come with a Shark Fin antenna.
All Toyota Vellfire variants have a With Guidedlines rear camera.
All Toyota Vellfire variants have Driver and Passenger seatbelt pretensioners and force limiters.
All Toyota Vellfire variants include Front & Rear speakers.
All Toyota Vellfire variants have Front & Rear electric adjustable seats.
All Toyota Vellfire variants have a With Storage central console armrest.
All Toyota Vellfire variants feature ambient lighting with 14 color options.
All variants of Toyota Vellfire have Rear Seat Headrest.
All Toyota Vellfire variants come with a Dual Pane sunroof.
All Toyota Vellfire variants come with Dual Tone Mahine Finish Bright & Dark Alloy Wheels, Chrome Back Door Garnish And e Door Handles, Body Colour ORVMS as additional features.