Volkswagen Tiguan has 1 variants: 2.0 TSI Elegance.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Power Steering.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Air Conditioner.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Heater.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Automatic Climate Control.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Accessory Power Outlet.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Trunk Light.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Vanity Mirror.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Rear Reading Lamp.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Adjustable Headrest.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Rear Seat Centre Arm Rest.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Rear AC Vents.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Cruise Control.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Engine Start/Stop Button.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Hands-Free Tailgate.
Volkswagen Tiguan has KeyLess Entry.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Follow Me Home Headlamps.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Tachometer.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Alloy Wheels.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Integrated Antenna.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Automatic Headlamps.
Volkswagen Tiguan has LED DRLs.
Volkswagen Tiguan has LED Headlamps.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Anti-lock Braking System (ABS).
Volkswagen Tiguan has Central Locking.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Driver Airbag.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Side Airbag.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Seat Belt Warning.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Engine Immobilizer.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Electronic Stability Control (ESC).
Volkswagen Tiguan has Speed Alert.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Speed Sensing Auto Door Lock.
Volkswagen Tiguan has ISOFIX Child Seat Mounts.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Hill Assist.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Impact Sensing Auto Door Unlock.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Radio.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Wireless Phone Charging.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Bluetooth Connectivity.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Android Auto.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Apple CarPlay.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Driver Attention Warning.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Height Adjustable Front Seat Belts.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Lumbar Support.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Paddle Shifters.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Electronic Brakeforce Distribution (EBD).
Volkswagen Tiguan has Brake Assist.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Door Ajar Warning.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Hill Descent Control.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Leather wrap gear-shift selector.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Heated Outside Rear View Mirror.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Lane Change Indicator.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Regenerative Braking.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Height Adjustable Driver Seat.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Rear Window Defogger.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Leather Wrapped Steering Wheel.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Glove Box.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Adjustable Headlamps.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Outside Rear View Mirror Turn Indicators.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Passenger Airbag.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Day & Night Rear View Mirror.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Tyre Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS).
Volkswagen Tiguan has Touchscreen.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Rear Window Wiper.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Rear Window Washer.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Child Safety Locks.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Rear Spoiler.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Rain Sensing Wiper.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Air Quality Control.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Tinted Glass.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Roof Rails.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Curtain Airbag.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Usb Ports.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Luggage Hook & Net.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Integrated 2DIN Audio.
The Volkswagen Tiguan has the 2.0 TSI engine.
The Volkswagen Tiguan has a displacement of 1984  cubic centimeters.
The Volkswagen Tiguan generates 187.74 Brake Horsepower (BHP) at 4200 to 6000 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
The Volkswagen Tiguan generates 320 Newton meters at 1500 to 4100 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
The Volkswagen Tiguan has 4.0 valves per cylinder.
The Volkswagen Tiguan has a Automatic transmission.
The Volkswagen Tiguan has 4.0 cylinders.
The Volkswagen Tiguan has a 7-Speed-DSG gearbox.
The Volkswagen Tiguan has a All-Wheel Drive (AWD) drive type.
The Volkswagen Tiguan runs on Petrol.
The Volkswagen Tiguan complies with BS VI 2.0 emission norms.
The Volkswagen Tiguan has Electric steering.
The Volkswagen Tiguan has a turning radius of 5.39m.
The Volkswagen Tiguan has Ventilated Disc front brakes.
The Volkswagen Tiguan has Disc rear brakes.
The Volkswagen Tiguan has a length of 4509 mm.
The Volkswagen Tiguan has a width of 1839 mm.
The Volkswagen Tiguan has a height of 1665 mm.
The Volkswagen Tiguan offers 615 Litres of boot space.
The Volkswagen Tiguan has a seating capacity of 5.0.
The Volkswagen Tiguan has a wheelbase of 2679 mm.
The Volkswagen Tiguan has a kerb weight of 1703 kg.
The Volkswagen Tiguan has a gross weight of 2230 kg.
The Volkswagen Tiguan has 5.0 doors.
The Volkswagen Tiguan features a Electronic boot opening mechanism.
The Volkswagen Tiguan is fitted with tyres of size 235/55 R18.
The Volkswagen Tiguan is equipped with Tubeless Radial tyres.
The Volkswagen Tiguan is equipped with 6.0 airbags.
The Volkswagen Tiguan has been rated 5 Star by Global NCAP.
The Volkswagen Tiguan has received a 5 Star child safety rating from Global NCAP.
The Volkswagen Tiguan is equipped with a 8 inch touchscreen.
The Volkswagen Tiguan is equipped with 8.0 speakers.
The Volkswagen Tiguan features 18 Inch front alloy wheels.
The Volkswagen Tiguan features 18 Inch rear alloy wheels.
The Volkswagen Tiguan features Android Auto, Apple CarPlay connectivity options.
The Volkswagen Tiguan comes with a Full Digital digital cluster.
The Volkswagen Tiguan features Leather upholstery.
The Volkswagen Tiguan features a rear tread of 1566 mm.
The Volkswagen Tiguan features Driver's Window anti-pinch power windows.
The Volkswagen Tiguan delivers a mileage of 12.65 kmpl.
The Volkswagen Tiguan comes with a fuel tank capacity of 60 Litres.
The Volkswagen Tiguan comes with the Multi-link suspension front suspension.
The Volkswagen Tiguan comes with the Multi-link suspension rear suspension.
The Volkswagen Tiguan features Tilt & Telescopic steering adjustment.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Adjustable Steering.
The Volkswagen Tiguan features Front & Rear parking sensors.
The Volkswagen Tiguan features Front & Rear USB charging ports.
The Volkswagen Tiguan features Front & Rear fog lights.
The Volkswagen Tiguan features a Shark Fin antenna.
The Volkswagen Tiguan has a 10 Inch digital cluster.
The Volkswagen Tiguan has a With Guidedlines rear camera.
The Volkswagen Tiguan has Driver and Passenger seatbelt pretensioners and force limiters.
The Volkswagen Tiguan has Front & Rear speakers.
The Volkswagen Tiguan has Front electric adjustable seats.
The Volkswagen Tiguan has a 40:20:40 Split foldable rear seat.
The Volkswagen Tiguan has a With Storage central console armrest.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Turbo Charger.
The Volkswagen Tiguan offers ambient lighting with 30 color choices.
Volkswagen Tiguan has Rear Seat Headrest.
The Volkswagen Tiguan includes a Panoramic sunroof.
The Volkswagen Tiguan has 3 drive modes.
The Volkswagen Tiguan features Eco, Normal & Sport drive modes.
The Volkswagen Tiguan includes Simultaneous pairing of 2 compatible mobile devices,Car information display as additional features.