Aston Martin Vantage has 1 variants: V8.
Aston Martin Vantage has Power Steering.
Aston Martin Vantage has Air Conditioner.
Aston Martin Vantage has Heater.
Aston Martin Vantage has Automatic Climate Control.
Aston Martin Vantage has Accessory Power Outlet.
Aston Martin Vantage has Adjustable Headrest.
Aston Martin Vantage has Cruise Control.
Aston Martin Vantage has Engine Start/Stop Button.
Aston Martin Vantage does not have Hands-Free Tailgate.
Aston Martin Vantage has KeyLess Entry.
Aston Martin Vantage has Idle Start-Stop System.
Aston Martin Vantage has Tachometer.
Aston Martin Vantage has Alloy Wheels.
Aston Martin Vantage has Automatic Headlamps.
Aston Martin Vantage has Anti-lock Braking System (ABS).
Aston Martin Vantage has Central Locking.
Aston Martin Vantage has Driver Airbag.
Aston Martin Vantage has Seat Belt Warning.
Aston Martin Vantage has Engine Immobilizer.
Aston Martin Vantage has Electronic Stability Control (ESC).
Aston Martin Vantage has Speed Alert.
Aston Martin Vantage has Speed Sensing Auto Door Lock.
Aston Martin Vantage has Hill Assist.
Aston Martin Vantage has Impact Sensing Auto Door Unlock.
Aston Martin Vantage has Radio.
Aston Martin Vantage has Bluetooth Connectivity.
Aston Martin Vantage has Android Auto.
Aston Martin Vantage has Apple CarPlay.
Aston Martin Vantage has Lumbar Support.
Aston Martin Vantage has Electronic Brakeforce Distribution (EBD).
Aston Martin Vantage has Brake Assist.
Aston Martin Vantage has Door Ajar Warning.
Aston Martin Vantage has Forward Collision Warning.
Aston Martin Vantage has Automatic Emergency Braking.
Aston Martin Vantage has Oncoming Lane Mitigation.
Aston Martin Vantage has Speed Assist System.
Aston Martin Vantage has Blind Spot Collision Avoidance Assist.
Aston Martin Vantage has Lane Departure Warning.
Aston Martin Vantage has Lane Keep Assist.
Aston Martin Vantage has Lane Departure Prevention Assist.
Aston Martin Vantage has Adaptive High Beam Assist.
Aston Martin Vantage has Battery Saver.
Aston Martin Vantage has Traction Control.
Aston Martin Vantage has Height Adjustable Driver Seat.
Aston Martin Vantage has Leather Wrapped Steering Wheel.
Aston Martin Vantage has Glove Box.
Aston Martin Vantage has Adjustable Headlamps.
Aston Martin Vantage has Passenger Airbag.
Aston Martin Vantage has Day & Night Rear View Mirror.
Aston Martin Vantage has Tyre Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS).
Aston Martin Vantage has Touchscreen.
Aston Martin Vantage has Air Quality Control.
Aston Martin Vantage has Curtain Airbag.
The Aston Martin Vantage has the M177 AMG engine.
The Aston Martin Vantage has a displacement of 3998  cubic centimeters.
The Aston Martin Vantage generates 656 Brake Horsepower (BHP) at 6000 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
The Aston Martin Vantage generates 800 Newton meters at 2750 to 6000 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
The Aston Martin Vantage has 4.0 valves per cylinder.
The Aston Martin Vantage has a Automatic transmission.
The Aston Martin Vantage has 8.0 cylinders.
The Aston Martin Vantage has a 8-Speed-AT gearbox.
The Aston Martin Vantage has a Rear-Wheel Drive (RWD) drive type.
The Aston Martin Vantage runs on Petrol.
The Aston Martin Vantage complies with BS VI 2.0 emission norms.
The Aston Martin Vantage has a turning radius of 6m.
The Aston Martin Vantage has a length of 4495 mm.
The Aston Martin Vantage has a width of 2045 mm.
The Aston Martin Vantage has a height of 1275 mm.
The Aston Martin Vantage offers 346 Litres of boot space.
The Aston Martin Vantage has a seating capacity of 2.0.
The Aston Martin Vantage has an unladen ground clearance of 94 mm.
The Aston Martin Vantage has a wheelbase of 2705 mm.
The Aston Martin Vantage has a kerb weight of 1745 kg.
The Aston Martin Vantage is equipped with Powered Outside Rear View Mirror (ORVM).
The Aston Martin Vantage is fitted with tyres of size F:275/35/ZR21,R:325/30/ZR21.
The Aston Martin Vantage is equipped with Tubeless Radial tyres.
The Aston Martin Vantage is equipped with 4.0 airbags.
The Aston Martin Vantage is equipped with a unknown touchscreen.
The Aston Martin Vantage features 21 Inch front alloy wheels.
The Aston Martin Vantage features 21 Inch rear alloy wheels.
The Aston Martin Vantage features Android Auto, Apple CarPlay connectivity options.
The Aston Martin Vantage comes with a Full Digital digital cluster.
The Aston Martin Vantage has a reported boot space of 346 Litres.
The Aston Martin Vantage achieves a top speed of 325 kmph.
The Aston Martin Vantage achieves 0-100 kmph acceleration in 3.5 s.
The Aston Martin Vantage achieves 0-100 kmph in 3.5 s.
The Aston Martin Vantage features All Windows anti-pinch power windows.
The Aston Martin Vantage delivers a highway mileage of 7 kmpl.
The Aston Martin Vantage comes with a fuel tank capacity of 73 Litres.
The Aston Martin Vantage features Front & Rear parking sensors.
The Aston Martin Vantage features Front USB charging ports.
The Aston Martin Vantage features Front & Rear power windows.
The Aston Martin Vantage features Front Only cup holders.
The Aston Martin Vantage has a With Guidedlines rear camera.
The Aston Martin Vantage has Driver and Passenger seatbelt pretensioners and force limiters.
The Aston Martin Vantage has a Twin turbocharger.
The Aston Martin Vantage includes Adjustable rear seat headrests.