Audi S5 Sportback has 2 variants: 3.0L TFSI & Platinum Edition.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Power Steering.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Air Conditioner.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Heater.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Automatic Climate Control.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Accessory Power Outlet.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Trunk Light.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Vanity Mirror.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Rear Reading Lamp.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Adjustable Headrest.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Rear Seat Centre Arm Rest.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Rear AC Vents.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Cruise Control.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Engine Start/Stop Button.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Voice Commands.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Hands-Free Tailgate.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Chrome Grille.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have KeyLess Entry.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Follow Me Home Headlamps.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Tachometer.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback do not have Wheel Covers.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Alloy Wheels.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Integrated Antenna.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Automatic Headlamps.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have LED DRLs.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have LED Headlamps.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Anti-lock Braking System (ABS).
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Central Locking.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Driver Airbag.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Side Airbag.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Seat Belt Warning.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Engine Immobilizer.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Side Airbag-Rear.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Speed Alert.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Speed Sensing Auto Door Lock.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have ISOFIX Child Seat Mounts.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Impact Sensing Auto Door Unlock.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Radio.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Bluetooth Connectivity.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Android Auto.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Apple CarPlay.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback do not have Height Adjustable Front Seat Belts.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Lumbar Support.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Electronic Multi-Tripmeter.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Digital Clock.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Outside Temperature Display.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Dual Tone Dashboard.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback do not have Power Antenna.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have LED Taillights.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Brake Assist.
Audi S5 Sportback variant with Power Door Locks - Platinum Edition.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Anti-Theft Alarm.
Audi S5 Sportback variant with Passenger Side Rear View Mirror - Platinum Edition.
Audi S5 Sportback variant with Rear Seat Belts - Platinum Edition.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Door Ajar Warning.
Audi S5 Sportback variant with Adjustable Seats - Platinum Edition.
Audi S5 Sportback variant with Crash Sensor - Platinum Edition.
Audi S5 Sportback variant with EBD - Platinum Edition.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Digital Odometer.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Heads-Up Display (HUD).
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Cooled Glovebox.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Active noise cancellation.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Leather wrap gear-shift selector.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Headlamp Washers.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback do not have Smoke Headlamps.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Blind Spot Monitor.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Tailgate Ajar Warning.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Remote Trunk Opener.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback do not have Remote Fuel Lid Opener.
Audi S5 Sportback variant with Centrally Mounted Fuel Tank - Platinum Edition.
Audi S5 Sportback variant with Engine Check Warning - Platinum Edition.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Compass.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Leather Seats.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Driving Experience Control Eco.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback do not have Fog Lights - Rear.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback do not have Internal Storage.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Find My Car location.
Audi S5 Sportback variant with Side Impact Beams - Platinum Edition.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Height Adjustable Driver Seat.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Rear Window Defogger.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Leather Wrapped Steering Wheel.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Glove Box.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Outside Rear View Mirror Turn Indicators.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Passenger Airbag.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Day & Night Rear View Mirror.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Tyre Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS).
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Touchscreen.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Rear Window Wiper.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Rear Window Washer.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Chrome Garnish.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Child Safety Locks.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Rear Spoiler.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Rain Sensing Wiper.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Air Quality Control.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Tinted Glass.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Folding Table in The Rear.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Navigation System.
Audi S5 Sportback variant with Front Impact Beams - Platinum Edition.
Audi S5 Sportback variant with Vehicle Stability Control System - Platinum Edition.
Audi S5 Sportback variant without Clutch Lock - Platinum Edition.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Smart Access Card Entry.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Fabric Upholstery.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Roof Rails.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Cigarette Lighter.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Roof Carrier.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Side Stepper.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Dual Tone Body Colour.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Usb Ports.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback do not have Gear Shift Indicator.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback do not have Luggage Hook & Net.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have LED Fog Lamps.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Low Fuel Warning Light.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Heated Wing Mirror.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Power Boot.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Fog Lights - Front.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Integrated 2DIN Audio.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have USB & Auxiliary input.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback do not have Rear Curtain.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Audio System Remote Control.
All Audi S5 Sportback variants use the 3.0 L V6 TFSI Petrol engine engine.
All Audi S5 Sportback variants have a displacement of 2994  cubic centimeters.
All Audi S5 Sportback variants produce a maximum power of 348.66 Brake Horsepower (BHP) at 5400 to 6400 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
All Audi S5 Sportback variants produce a maximum torque of 500 Newton meters at 1370 to 4500 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
All Audi S5 Sportback variants have 4.0 valves per cylinder.
All Audi S5 Sportback variants have a Automatic transmission.
All Audi S5 Sportback variants have 6.0 cylinders.
All Audi S5 Sportback variants come with a 8-Speed tiptronic gearbox.
All Audi S5 Sportback variants have a All-Wheel Drive (AWD) drive type.
All Audi S5 Sportback variants run on Petrol.
All Audi S5 Sportback variants comply with BS VI 2.0 emission norms.
All Audi S5 Sportback variants have Ventilated Disc front brakes.
All Audi S5 Sportback variants have Ventilated Disc rear brakes.
All Audi S5 Sportback variants have a length of 4765 mm.
All Audi S5 Sportback variants have a width of 1845 mm.
All Audi S5 Sportback variants have a height of 1390 mm.
All Audi S5 Sportback variants offer 480 Litres of boot space.
All Audi S5 Sportback variants have a seating capacity of 5.0.
Audi S5 Sportback variant 3.0L TFSI has a wheelbase of 2651 mm.
Audi S5 Sportback variant Platinum Edition has a wheelbase of 2825 mm.
All Audi S5 Sportback variants have a kerb weight of 1760 kg.
All Audi S5 Sportback variants have a gross weight of 2035 kg.
All Audi S5 Sportback variants have 4.0 doors.
All Audi S5 Sportback variants have tyres of size 255/35 R19.
All Audi S5 Sportback variants come with Tubeless Radial tyres.
Audi S5 Sportback variant 3.0L TFSI features 10.0 airbags.
Audi S5 Sportback variant Platinum Edition features 8.0 airbags.
All Audi S5 Sportback variants come with a 10.11 inch touchscreen display.
All Audi S5 Sportback variants come with 19.0 speakers.
All Audi S5 Sportback variants come with Android Auto, Apple CarPlay connectivity options.
All Audi S5 Sportback variants have a top speed of 250 kmph.
All Audi S5 Sportback variants accelerate from 0-100 kmph in 4.8 s.
All Audi S5 Sportback variants accelerate from 0-100 kmph in 4.8 s.
All Audi S5 Sportback variants use a Rack & Pinion steering gear type.
All Audi S5 Sportback variants use a Turbo Fuel Stratified Injection (TSFi) fuel supply system.
All Audi S5 Sportback variants feature a Smart trunk opener.
All Audi S5 Sportback variants come with Coil Spring shock absorbers.
Audi S5 Sportback variant Platinum Edition has Driver's Window anti-pinch power windows.
Audi S5 Sportback variant 3.0L TFSI provides a mileage of 8.8 kmpl.
Audi S5 Sportback variant Platinum Edition provides a mileage of 7.6 kmpl.
All Audi S5 Sportback variants have a fuel tank capacity of 58 Litres.
All Audi S5 Sportback variants have the Multi-link suspension front suspension.
All Audi S5 Sportback variants have the Multi-link suspension rear suspension.
All Audi S5 Sportback variants come with Tilt & Telescopic steering adjustment.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Adjustable Steering.
All Audi S5 Sportback variants are equipped with Front & Rear parking sensors.
All Audi S5 Sportback variants come with Front & Rear USB charging ports.
Audi S5 Sportback variant with Rear Camera - Platinum Edition.
Audi S5 Sportback variant with Pretensioners & Force Limiter Seatbelts - Platinum Edition.
All Audi S5 Sportback variants include Front & Rear speakers.
All Audi S5 Sportback variants have Front electric adjustable seats.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Central Console Armrest.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Turbo Charger.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Rear Seat Headrest.
All variants of Audi S5 Sportback have Sunroof.
All Audi S5 Sportback variants come with 4 drive modes.
All Audi S5 Sportback variants come with Exterior mirror housings in aluminum look, S model bumpers, Illuminated Scuff Plates with "S" logo. Matrix LED Headlamps with Dynamic Turn Signal, Alloy Wheels, 5 double arm S-style, Graphite Grey with 255/35 R19 tires, as additional features.