Audi Q5 has 3 variants: Premium Plus, Technology & Bold Edition.
All variants of Audi Q5 have Power Steering.
All variants of Audi Q5 have Air Conditioner.
All variants of Audi Q5 have Heater.
All variants of Audi Q5 have Automatic Climate Control.
Audi Q5 variants with Accessory Power Outlet - Premium Plus & Technology.
Audi Q5 variants with Trunk Light - Premium Plus & Technology.
Audi Q5 variants with Vanity Mirror - Premium Plus & Technology.
Audi Q5 variants with Rear Reading Lamp - Premium Plus & Technology.
Audi Q5 variants with Adjustable Headrest - Premium Plus & Technology.
Audi Q5 variants with Rear Seat Centre Arm Rest - Premium Plus & Technology.
Audi Q5 variants with Rear AC Vents - Premium Plus & Technology.
Audi Q5 variants with Cruise Control - Premium Plus & Technology.
Audi Q5 variants with Engine Start/Stop Button - Premium Plus & Technology.
All variants of Audi Q5 have Voice Commands.
All variants of Audi Q5 have Chrome Grille.
All variants of Audi Q5 have KeyLess Entry.
Audi Q5 variants with Idle Start-Stop System - Premium Plus & Technology.
All variants of Audi Q5 have Follow Me Home Headlamps.
Audi Q5 variants with Tachometer - Premium Plus & Technology.
All variants of Audi Q5 have Alloy Wheels.
All variants of Audi Q5 have Integrated Antenna.
All variants of Audi Q5 have Automatic Headlamps.
All variants of Audi Q5 have LED DRLs.
Audi Q5 variants with LED Headlamps - Premium Plus & Technology.
All variants of Audi Q5 have Anti-lock Braking System (ABS).
All variants of Audi Q5 have Central Locking.
All variants of Audi Q5 have Driver Airbag.
All variants of Audi Q5 have Side Airbag.
All variants of Audi Q5 have Seat Belt Warning.
All variants of Audi Q5 have Engine Immobilizer.
All variants of Audi Q5 have Side Airbag-Rear.
Audi Q5 variants with Electronic Stability Control (ESC) - Premium Plus & Technology.
All variants of Audi Q5 have Anti-Theft Device.
Audi Q5 variants with Speed Alert - Premium Plus & Technology.
All variants of Audi Q5 have Speed Sensing Auto Door Lock.
All variants of Audi Q5 have ISOFIX Child Seat Mounts.
Audi Q5 variants with Hill Assist - Premium Plus & Technology.
Audi Q5 variants with Impact Sensing Auto Door Unlock - Premium Plus & Technology.
Audi Q5 variant with 360 View Camera - Technology.
Audi Q5 variant without 360 View Camera - Premium Plus.
Audi Q5 variants with Radio - Premium Plus & Technology.
All variants of Audi Q5 have Wireless Phone Charging.
Audi Q5 variants with Bluetooth Connectivity - Premium Plus & Technology.
All variants of Audi Q5 have Android Auto.
All variants of Audi Q5 have Apple CarPlay.
Audi Q5 variants with Height Adjustable Front Seat Belts - Premium Plus & Technology.
All variants of Audi Q5 have LED Taillights.
All variants of Audi Q5 have Electronic Brakeforce Distribution (EBD).
All variants of Audi Q5 have Brake Assist.
All variants of Audi Q5 have Anti-Theft Alarm.
All variants of Audi Q5 have Door Ajar Warning.
Audi Q5 variant with Digital Odometer - Bold Edition.
Audi Q5 variant with Heads-Up Display (HUD) - Bold Edition.
Audi Q5 variants with Glove Box light - Premium Plus & Technology.
Audi Q5 variants with Hill Descent Control - Premium Plus & Technology.
Audi Q5 variant without Hill Descent Control - Bold Edition.
Audi Q5 variant with Blind Spot Monitor - Bold Edition.
Audi Q5 variants with Tailgate Ajar Warning - Premium Plus & Technology.
All variants of Audi Q5 have Cornering Headlamps.
All variants of Audi Q5 have Traction Control.
All variants of Audi Q5 have Height Adjustable Driver Seat.
All variants of Audi Q5 have Rear Window Defogger.
Audi Q5 variants with Glove Box - Premium Plus & Technology.
Audi Q5 variants with Adjustable Headlamps - Premium Plus & Technology.
Audi Q5 variants with Outside Rear View Mirror Turn Indicators - Premium Plus & Technology.
All variants of Audi Q5 have Passenger Airbag.
All variants of Audi Q5 have Day & Night Rear View Mirror.
All variants of Audi Q5 have Tyre Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS).
All variants of Audi Q5 have Touchscreen.
All variants of Audi Q5 have Rear Window Wiper.
All variants of Audi Q5 have Rear Window Washer.
All variants of Audi Q5 have Chrome Garnish.
All variants of Audi Q5 have Child Safety Locks.
All variants of Audi Q5 have Rear Spoiler.
All variants of Audi Q5 have Rain Sensing Wiper.
Audi Q5 variants with Air Quality Control - Premium Plus & Technology.
All variants of Audi Q5 have Roof Rails.
All variants of Audi Q5 have Curtain Airbag.
All variants of Audi Q5 have Usb Ports.
Audi Q5 variants with Luggage Hook & Net - Premium Plus & Technology.
All Audi Q5 variants use the 2.0 L TFSI engine.
All Audi Q5 variants have a displacement of 1984  cubic centimeters.
All Audi Q5 variants produce a maximum power of 245.59 Brake Horsepower (BHP) at 5000 to 6000 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
Audi Q5 variants - Premium Plus & Technology share a max torque of 370 Newton meters at 1600 to 4300bhp.
Audi Q5 variant Bold Edition has a max torque of 370 Newton meters at 1600 to 4300 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
All Audi Q5 variants have 4.0 valves per cylinder.
All Audi Q5 variants have a Automatic transmission.
All Audi Q5 variants have 4.0 cylinders.
All Audi Q5 variants come with a 7-Speed AT gearbox.
All Audi Q5 variants have a All-Wheel Drive (AWD) drive type.
All Audi Q5 variants run on Petrol.
All Audi Q5 variants comply with BS VI 2.0 emission norms.
Audi Q5 variants - Premium Plus & Technology have Electric steering.
Audi Q5 variants - Premium Plus & Technology feature Disc front brakes.
Audi Q5 variants - Premium Plus & Technology feature Disc rear brakes.
All Audi Q5 variants have a length of 4682 mm.
All Audi Q5 variants have a width of 1893 mm.
Audi Q5 variant Premium Plus has a height of 1655 mm.
Audi Q5 variants - Technology & Bold Edition share a height of 1653 mm.
All Audi Q5 variants offer 520 Litres of boot space.
All Audi Q5 variants have a seating capacity of 5.0.
Audi Q5 variants - Premium Plus & Technology share a wheelbase of 2827 mm.
Audi Q5 variant Bold Edition has a wheelbase of 2500 mm.
All Audi Q5 variants have a kerb weight of 1970 kg.
All Audi Q5 variants have 5.0 doors.
Audi Q5 variants - Premium Plus & Technology feature a Electronic boot opening mechanism.
Audi Q5 variants - Premium Plus & Technology feature Powered & Folding Outside Rear View Mirror (ORVM).
All Audi Q5 variants have tyres of size 235/55 R19.
Audi Q5 variants - Premium Plus & Technology are fitted with Tyre Type tyres.
Audi Q5 variant Bold Edition features Unknown tyres.
All Audi Q5 variants come equipped with 8.0 airbags.
Audi Q5 variant Premium Plus has a Global NCAP rating of 5 Star.
Audi Q5 variant Premium Plus features a unknown touchscreen.
Audi Q5 variants - Technology & Bold Edition come with a 10 inch touchscreen display.
Audi Q5 variants - Technology & Bold Edition come with 19.0 speakers.
Audi Q5 variants - Premium Plus & Technology have 19 Inch front alloy wheels.
Audi Q5 variants - Premium Plus & Technology have 19 Inch rear alloy wheels.
Audi Q5 variant Bold Edition includes Android Auto, Apple CarPlay connectivity features.
Audi Q5 variants - Premium Plus & Technology feature a Full Digital digital cluster.
Audi Q5 variants - Premium Plus & Technology feature Leather upholstery options.
Audi Q5 variants - Premium Plus & Technology have a top speed of 240 kmph.
Audi Q5 variant Bold Edition has a top speed of 237 kmph.
Audi Q5 variants - Premium Plus & Technology have a 0-100 kmph acceleration time of 6.1 s.
Audi Q5 variant Bold Edition accelerates from 0-100 kmph in 6.3 s.
Audi Q5 variants - Premium Plus & Technology have a 0-100 kmph acceleration time of 6.1 s.
Audi Q5 variant Bold Edition accelerates from 0-100 kmph in 6.3 s.
Audi Q5 variants - Premium Plus & Technology come with Driver's Window anti-pinch power windows.
Audi Q5 variant Bold Edition has All Windows anti-pinch power windows.
All Audi Q5 variants offer a mileage of 13.47 kmpl.
All Audi Q5 variants have a fuel tank capacity of 70 Litres.
All Audi Q5 variants have the Multi-link suspension front suspension.
All Audi Q5 variants have the Multi-link suspension rear suspension.
Audi Q5 variants - Premium Plus & Technology share the Tilt & Telescopic steering adjustment type.
Audi Q5 variants - Premium Plus & Technology share the Height & Reach steering adjustability option.
All Audi Q5 variants are equipped with Front & Rear parking sensors.
Audi Q5 variants - Premium Plus & Technology share the Front & Rear USB charging configuration.
Audi Q5 variants - Premium Plus & Technology share the Front & Rear power window configuration.
Audi Q5 variants - Premium Plus & Technology share the Front & Rear cup holder configuration.
Audi Q5 variants - Premium Plus & Technology share the Shark Fin antenna type.
Audi Q5 variants - Premium Plus & Technology share the 12.29 inch digital cluster size.
All Audi Q5 variants have a With Guidedlines rear camera.
Audi Q5 variants - Premium Plus & Technology share the Driver and Passenger seatbelt pretensioner and force limiter type.
Audi Q5 variant Bold Edition has Driver seatbelt pretensioners and force limiters.
All Audi Q5 variants include Front & Rear speakers.
All Audi Q5 variants have Front electric adjustable seats.
Audi Q5 variants - Premium Plus & Technology share the With Storage central console armrest type.
Audi Q5 variant Bold Edition has Driver knee airbags.
Audi Q5 variants - Premium Plus & Technology share the 30 ambient lighting configuration.
Audi Q5 variants - Premium Plus & Technology share Adjustable rear seat headrests.
Audi Q5 variants - Premium Plus & Technology share a Panoramic sunroof.
Audi Q5 variant with Sunroof - Bold Edition.
All Audi Q5 variants come with 6 drive modes.
Audi Q5 variant Premium Plus offers Singleframe grille with vertical struts, as additional features.
Audi Q5 variants - Technology & Bold Edition share 3D Premium Sound System, centre speaker and subwoofer, with a 16-channel amplifier the output of 755 watts as additional features.