Bentley Bentayga has 5 variants: V8, EWB, S, Azure & EWB Azure FIRST EDITION.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Power Steering.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Air Conditioner.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Heater.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Automatic Climate Control.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Accessory Power Outlet.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Trunk Light.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Vanity Mirror.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Rear Reading Lamp.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Rear Seat Centre Arm Rest.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Rear AC Vents.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Cruise Control.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Engine Start/Stop Button.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Voice Commands.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Chrome Grille.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have KeyLess Entry.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Follow Me Home Headlamps.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Tachometer.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Alloy Wheels.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Integrated Antenna.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Automatic Headlamps.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have LED DRLs.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have LED Headlamps.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Anti-lock Braking System (ABS).
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Central Locking.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Driver Airbag.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Side Airbag.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Seat Belt Warning.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Engine Immobilizer.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga do not have Side Airbag-Rear.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Anti-Theft Device.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Speed Alert.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Speed Sensing Auto Door Lock.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have ISOFIX Child Seat Mounts.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Hill Assist.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Impact Sensing Auto Door Unlock.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have 360 View Camera.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Radio.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Wireless Phone Charging.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Bluetooth Connectivity.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Android Auto.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Apple CarPlay.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Height Adjustable Front Seat Belts.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Lumbar Support.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Paddle Shifters.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Electronic Multi-Tripmeter.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Digital Clock.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Outside Temperature Display.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Dual Tone Dashboard.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have LED Taillights.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Brake Assist.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Anti-Theft Alarm.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Door Ajar Warning.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Digital Odometer.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Heads-Up Display (HUD).
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Cooled Glovebox.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Ventilated Seats.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Hill Descent Control.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga do not have Battery Saver.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Leather wrap gear-shift selector.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga do not have Headlamp Washers.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Blind Spot Monitor.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Tailgate Ajar Warning.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Remote Trunk Opener.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Remote Fuel Lid Opener.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Compass.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Lane Change Indicator.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Wi-Fi Connectivity.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Traction Control.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Rear Entertainment System.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Leather Seats.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Driving Experience Control Eco.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have MirrorLink.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Fog Lights - Rear.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Internal Storage.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Height Adjustable Driver Seat.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Rear Window Defogger.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Leather Wrapped Steering Wheel.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Glove Box.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Adjustable Headlamps.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Outside Rear View Mirror Turn Indicators.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Passenger Airbag.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Day & Night Rear View Mirror.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Tyre Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS).
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Touchscreen.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Rear Window Wiper.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Rear Window Washer.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Chrome Garnish.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Child Safety Locks.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Rear Spoiler.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Rain Sensing Wiper.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Air Quality Control.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Tinted Glass.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Folding Table in The Rear.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Navigation System.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Smart Access Card Entry.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Roof Rails.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Cigarette Lighter.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Roof Carrier.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Side Stepper.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Dual Tone Body Colour.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Usb Ports.
Bentley Bentayga variant with Gear Shift Indicator - V8.
Bentley Bentayga variants without Gear Shift Indicator - EWB, S, Azure & EWB Azure FIRST EDITION.
Bentley Bentayga variant with Luggage Hook & Net - V8.
Bentley Bentayga variants without Luggage Hook & Net - EWB, S, Azure & EWB Azure FIRST EDITION.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have LED Fog Lamps.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Low Fuel Warning Light.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Heated Wing Mirror.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Fog Lights - Front.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Integrated 2DIN Audio.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have USB & Auxiliary input.
Bentley Bentayga variant with Rear Curtain - V8.
Bentley Bentayga variants without Rear Curtain - EWB, S, Azure & EWB Azure FIRST EDITION.
All Bentley Bentayga variants use the 4.0 V8 twin-turbocharged petrol engine engine.
Bentley Bentayga variant V8 has a displacement of 3956  cubic centimeters.
Bentley Bentayga variants - EWB, S, Azure & EWB Azure FIRST EDITION share a displacement of 3993  cubic centimeters.
All Bentley Bentayga variants produce a maximum power of 542 Brake Horsepower (BHP) at 6000 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
All Bentley Bentayga variants produce a maximum torque of 770 Newton meters at 2000 to 4500 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
All Bentley Bentayga variants have 4.0 valves per cylinder.
All Bentley Bentayga variants have a Automatic transmission.
All Bentley Bentayga variants have 8.0 cylinders.
All Bentley Bentayga variants come with a 8-Speed gearbox.
All Bentley Bentayga variants have a All-Wheel Drive (AWD) drive type.
All Bentley Bentayga variants run on Petrol.
All Bentley Bentayga variants comply with BS VI 2.0 emission norms.
All Bentley Bentayga variants have Ventilated Disc front brakes.
All Bentley Bentayga variants have Ventilated Disc rear brakes.
All Bentley Bentayga variants have a length of 5125 mm.
All Bentley Bentayga variants have a width of 2222 mm.
All Bentley Bentayga variants have a height of 1728 mm.
All Bentley Bentayga variants offer 484 Litres of boot space.
All Bentley Bentayga variants have a seating capacity of 4.0.
Bentley Bentayga variant V8 has a wheelbase of 2995 mm.
Bentley Bentayga variants - EWB & EWB Azure FIRST EDITION share a wheelbase of 2680 mm.
Bentley Bentayga variants - S & Azure share a wheelbase of 2930 mm.
All Bentley Bentayga variants have a kerb weight of 2416 kg.
All Bentley Bentayga variants have a gross weight of 3250 kg.
All Bentley Bentayga variants have 5.0 doors.
All Bentley Bentayga variants have tyres of size 285/45 R21.
All Bentley Bentayga variants come with Tubeless Radial tyres.
All Bentley Bentayga variants come equipped with 6.0 airbags.
All Bentley Bentayga variants come with a 10.9 inch touchscreen display.
All Bentley Bentayga variants come with 20.0 speakers.
All Bentley Bentayga variants come with Android Auto, Apple CarPlay, SD Card Reader, HDMI Input, Mirror Link connectivity options.
All Bentley Bentayga variants have a top speed of 290 kmph.
Bentley Bentayga variant V8 features a front tread of 1575 mm.
All Bentley Bentayga variants accelerate from 0-100 kmph in 4.5 s.
All Bentley Bentayga variants accelerate from 0-100 kmph in 4.5 s.
All Bentley Bentayga variants use a Direct Injection (Di) fuel supply system.
All Bentley Bentayga variants feature a Smart trunk opener.
Bentley Bentayga variant Azure provides a mileage of 8.6 kmpl.
Bentley Bentayga variants - V8, EWB, S & EWB Azure FIRST EDITION have highway mileage figures of 7.6 kmpl.
All Bentley Bentayga variants have a fuel tank capacity of 85 Litres.
All Bentley Bentayga variants have the Multi-link suspension front suspension.
All Bentley Bentayga variants have the Multi-link suspension rear suspension.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Adjustable Steering.
All Bentley Bentayga variants are equipped with Front & Rear parking sensors.
All Bentley Bentayga variants come with Front & Rear USB charging ports.
All Bentley Bentayga variants include Front & Rear speakers.
All Bentley Bentayga variants have Front & Rear electric adjustable seats.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Central Console Armrest.
All Bentley Bentayga variants come with a Twin turbocharger.
Bentley Bentayga variant V8 has Semi autonomous parking.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Rear Seat Headrest.
All variants of Bentley Bentayga have Sunroof.
Bentley Bentayga variant V8 offers 8 Driving modes as additional features.