Byd Seal has 3 variants: Dynamic Range, Premium Range & Performance.
All variants of Byd Seal have Power Steering.
All variants of Byd Seal have Air Conditioner.
All variants of Byd Seal have Heater.
All variants of Byd Seal have Automatic Climate Control.
All variants of Byd Seal have Accessory Power Outlet.
All variants of Byd Seal have Trunk Light.
All variants of Byd Seal have Vanity Mirror.
All variants of Byd Seal have Rear Reading Lamp.
Byd Seal variants with Adjustable Headrest - Premium Range & Performance.
All variants of Byd Seal have Rear Seat Centre Arm Rest.
All variants of Byd Seal have Rear AC Vents.
All variants of Byd Seal have Cruise Control.
All variants of Byd Seal have Engine Start/Stop Button.
All variants of Byd Seal have Voice Commands.
Byd Seal variants with Hands-Free Tailgate - Premium Range & Performance.
Byd Seal variant without Hands-Free Tailgate - Dynamic Range.
All variants of Byd Seal have KeyLess Entry.
All variants of Byd Seal have Follow Me Home Headlamps.
All variants of Byd Seal have Alloy Wheels.
All variants of Byd Seal have Integrated Antenna.
All variants of Byd Seal have LED DRLs.
All variants of Byd Seal have LED Headlamps.
All variants of Byd Seal have Anti-lock Braking System (ABS).
All variants of Byd Seal have Central Locking.
All variants of Byd Seal have Driver Airbag.
All variants of Byd Seal have Side Airbag.
All variants of Byd Seal have Seat Belt Warning.
All variants of Byd Seal do not have E-Call & I-Call.
All variants of Byd Seal have Side Airbag-Rear.
All variants of Byd Seal have Speed Sensing Auto Door Lock.
All variants of Byd Seal have ISOFIX Child Seat Mounts.
All variants of Byd Seal have Hill Assist.
All variants of Byd Seal have Impact Sensing Auto Door Unlock.
All variants of Byd Seal have 360 View Camera.
All variants of Byd Seal have Radio.
All variants of Byd Seal have Wireless Phone Charging.
All variants of Byd Seal have Bluetooth Connectivity.
All variants of Byd Seal have Android Auto.
All variants of Byd Seal have Apple CarPlay.
All variants of Byd Seal have Driver Attention Warning.
All variants of Byd Seal have Remote Door Lock/Unlock.
All variants of Byd Seal have Height Adjustable Front Seat Belts.
All variants of Byd Seal have Lumbar Support.
All variants of Byd Seal have Dual Tone Dashboard.
All variants of Byd Seal have LED Taillights.
All variants of Byd Seal have Electronic Brakeforce Distribution (EBD).
All variants of Byd Seal have Anti-Theft Alarm.
All variants of Byd Seal have Door Ajar Warning.
All variants of Byd Seal have Digital Odometer.
All variants of Byd Seal have Remote Immobiliser.
Byd Seal variants with Heads-Up Display (HUD) - Premium Range & Performance.
Byd Seal variant without Heads-Up Display (HUD) - Dynamic Range.
All variants of Byd Seal have Forward Collision Warning.
All variants of Byd Seal have Automatic Emergency Braking.
All variants of Byd Seal have Traffic Sign Recognition.
All variants of Byd Seal have Lane Departure Warning.
All variants of Byd Seal have Lane Keep Assist.
All variants of Byd Seal have Lane Departure Prevention Assist.
All variants of Byd Seal have Adaptive Cruise Control.
All variants of Byd Seal have Adaptive High Beam Assist.
All variants of Byd Seal have Rear Cross Traffic Alert.
All variants of Byd Seal have Rear Cross Traffic Collision-Avoidance Assist.
All variants of Byd Seal have Glove Box light.
All variants of Byd Seal have Navigation with Live Traffic.
All variants of Byd Seal have Ventilated Seats.
All variants of Byd Seal have Active noise cancellation.
All variants of Byd Seal have Heated Outside Rear View Mirror.
All variants of Byd Seal have Blind Spot Monitor.
All variants of Byd Seal have Remote Boot Open.
All variants of Byd Seal have Tailgate Ajar Warning.
Byd Seal variant with Lane Change Indicator - Dynamic Range.
All variants of Byd Seal have Regenerative Braking.
All variants of Byd Seal have Fast Charging.
All variants of Byd Seal have Traction Control.
All variants of Byd Seal have Height Adjustable Driver Seat.
All variants of Byd Seal have Rear Window Defogger.
All variants of Byd Seal have Leather Wrapped Steering Wheel.
All variants of Byd Seal have Glove Box.
All variants of Byd Seal have Adjustable Headlamps.
All variants of Byd Seal have Passenger Airbag.
All variants of Byd Seal have Day & Night Rear View Mirror.
All variants of Byd Seal have Touchscreen.
All variants of Byd Seal have Child Safety Locks.
All variants of Byd Seal have Rain Sensing Wiper.
All variants of Byd Seal have Air Quality Control.
All variants of Byd Seal have Smart Access Card Entry.
All variants of Byd Seal have Curtain Airbag.
All variants of Byd Seal have Usb Ports.
All variants of Byd Seal have Luggage Hook & Net.
All variants of Byd Seal have LED Fog Lamps.
Byd Seal variant Dynamic Range delivers a max power of 201.15 Brake Horsepower (BHP).
Byd Seal variant Premium Range delivers a max power of 308.43 Brake Horsepower (BHP).
Byd Seal variant Performance delivers a max power of 523 Brake Horsepower (BHP).
Byd Seal variant Dynamic Range has a max torque of 310 Newton meters.
Byd Seal variant Premium Range has a max torque of 360 Newton meters.
Byd Seal variant Performance has a max torque of 670 Newton meters.
All Byd Seal variants have a Automatic transmission.
Byd Seal variants - Dynamic Range & Premium Range share a Rear-Wheel Drive (RWD) drive type.
Byd Seal variant Performance has a All-Wheel Drive (AWD) drive type.
All Byd Seal variants run on Electric.
All Byd Seal variants comply with ZEV emission norms.
All Byd Seal variants come with Electric steering.
All Byd Seal variants have a turning radius of 5.7m.
All Byd Seal variants have Ventilated Disc front brakes.
All Byd Seal variants have Ventilated Disc rear brakes.
All Byd Seal variants have a length of 4800 mm.
All Byd Seal variants have a width of 1875 mm.
All Byd Seal variants have a height of 1460 mm.
All Byd Seal variants offer 400 Litres of boot space.
All Byd Seal variants have a seating capacity of 5.0.
All Byd Seal variants have a wheelbase of 2920 mm.
Byd Seal variant Dynamic Range has a kerb weight of 1922 kg.
Byd Seal variant Premium Range has a kerb weight of 2055 kg.
Byd Seal variant Performance has a kerb weight of 2185 kg.
Byd Seal variant Dynamic Range has a gross weight of 2344 kg.
Byd Seal variant Premium Range has a gross weight of 2501 kg.
Byd Seal variant Performance has a gross weight of 2631 kg.
All Byd Seal variants have 4.0 doors.
All Byd Seal variants come with a Automatic boot opening mechanism.
Byd Seal variant Dynamic Range comes with tyres of size 225/50 R18.
Byd Seal variants - Premium Range & Performance feature tyres of size 235/45 R19.
All Byd Seal variants come with Unknown tyres.
All Byd Seal variants come equipped with 9.0 airbags.
All Byd Seal variants have received a 5 Star Global NCAP safety rating.
All Byd Seal variants have a 5 Star Global NCAP child safety rating.
All Byd Seal variants come with a 15.6 inch touchscreen display.
All Byd Seal variants come with 12.0 speakers.
All Byd Seal variants come with Android Auto, Apple CarPlay connectivity options.
All Byd Seal variants feature a LCD Digital Cluster digital cluster.
Byd Seal variant Dynamic Range is equipped with Leatherette upholstery.
Byd Seal variants - Premium Range & Performance feature Leather upholstery options.
All Byd Seal variants are equipped with a Permanent Magnet Synchronous Motor motor type.
All Byd Seal variants are powered by a Lithium-Ion Battery battery.
Byd Seal variant Dynamic Range features a 61.44 kWh battery capacity.
Byd Seal variants - Premium Range & Performance have the same battery capacity of 82.56 kWh
Byd Seal variant Dynamic Range has a driving range of 510 km.
Byd Seal variant Premium Range has a driving range of 650 km.
Byd Seal variant Performance has a driving range of 580 km.
All Byd Seal variants come with a CCS-II charging port.
All Byd Seal variants take 12-16 H (0-100%) to charge with a 7.2 kW AC fast charger.
Byd Seal variant Dynamic Range accelerates from 0-100 km/h in 7.5 s.
Byd Seal variant Premium Range accelerates from 0-100 km/h in 5.9 s.
Byd Seal variant Performance accelerates from 0-100 km/h in 3.8 s.
All Byd Seal variants take 45Min (0-80%) to charge using a 50 kW DC fast charger.
All Byd Seal variants have the Multi-link suspension front suspension.
All Byd Seal variants have the Multi-link suspension rear suspension.
All variants of Byd Seal have Adjustable Steering.
All Byd Seal variants are equipped with Front & Rear parking sensors.
All Byd Seal variants come with Front & Rear USB charging ports.
All Byd Seal variants are equipped with Front & Rear fog lights.
All Byd Seal variants come with a rear Glasss mount antenna antenna.
All Byd Seal variants feature a 10.25 inch digital cluster.
All Byd Seal variants have Driver and Passenger seatbelt pretensioners and force limiters.
All Byd Seal variants include Front & Rear speakers.
All Byd Seal variants have Front electric adjustable seats.
All Byd Seal variants have a 60:40 Split foldable rear seat.
All Byd Seal variants have a With Storage central console armrest.
All Byd Seal variants come with Driver knee airbags.
Byd Seal variants with Rear Seat Headrest - Dynamic Range & Performance.
All Byd Seal variants come with 2 Wireless phone charger,2V accessory socket,intelligent rotating touch screen display,DYNAUDIO speakers,Android Auto (wireless),Apple CarPlay(USB), as additional features.