Byd Atto 3 has 3 variants: Dynamic, Premium & Superior.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Power Steering.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Air Conditioner.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Heater.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Automatic Climate Control.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Accessory Power Outlet.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Trunk Light.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Vanity Mirror.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Rear Reading Lamp.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Adjustable Headrest.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Rear AC Vents.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Cruise Control.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Voice Commands.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have KeyLess Entry.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Follow Me Home Headlamps.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Tachometer.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Alloy Wheels.
Byd Atto 3 variant with Automatic Headlamps - Superior.
Byd Atto 3 variants without Automatic Headlamps - Dynamic & Premium.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have LED DRLs.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have LED Headlamps.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Anti-lock Braking System (ABS).
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Central Locking.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Driver Airbag.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Side Airbag.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Seat Belt Warning.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Engine Immobilizer.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 do not have Side Airbag-Rear.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Electronic Stability Control (ESC).
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Speed Alert.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Speed Sensing Auto Door Lock.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have ISOFIX Child Seat Mounts.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Hill Assist.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Impact Sensing Auto Door Unlock.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have 360 View Camera.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Radio.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Wireless Phone Charging.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Bluetooth Connectivity.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Android Auto.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Apple CarPlay.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Height Adjustable Front Seat Belts.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have LED Taillights.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Electronic Brakeforce Distribution (EBD).
Byd Atto 3 variant with Door Ajar Warning - Superior.
Byd Atto 3 variants without Door Ajar Warning - Dynamic & Premium.
Byd Atto 3 variant with Forward Collision Warning - Superior.
Byd Atto 3 variants without Forward Collision Warning - Dynamic & Premium.
Byd Atto 3 variant with Automatic Emergency Braking - Superior.
Byd Atto 3 variants without Automatic Emergency Braking - Dynamic & Premium.
Byd Atto 3 variant with Blind Spot Collision Avoidance Assist - Superior.
Byd Atto 3 variants without Blind Spot Collision Avoidance Assist - Dynamic & Premium.
Byd Atto 3 variant with Lane Departure Warning - Superior.
Byd Atto 3 variants without Lane Departure Warning - Dynamic & Premium.
Byd Atto 3 variant with Lane Keep Assist - Superior.
Byd Atto 3 variants without Lane Keep Assist - Dynamic & Premium.
Byd Atto 3 variant with Adaptive Cruise Control - Superior.
Byd Atto 3 variants without Adaptive Cruise Control - Dynamic & Premium.
Byd Atto 3 variant with Rear Cross Traffic Alert - Superior.
Byd Atto 3 variants without Rear Cross Traffic Alert - Dynamic & Premium.
Byd Atto 3 variant with Rear Cross Traffic Collision-Avoidance Assist - Superior.
Byd Atto 3 variants without Rear Cross Traffic Collision-Avoidance Assist - Dynamic & Premium.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Hill Descent Control.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Heated Outside Rear View Mirror.
Byd Atto 3 variant with Blind Spot Monitor - Superior.
Byd Atto 3 variants without Blind Spot Monitor - Dynamic & Premium.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Digital Car Key.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Remote Boot Open.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Tailgate Ajar Warning.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Regenerative Braking.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Fast Charging.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Traction Control.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Height Adjustable Driver Seat.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Rear Window Defogger.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Glove Box.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Adjustable Headlamps.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Outside Rear View Mirror Turn Indicators.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Passenger Airbag.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Day & Night Rear View Mirror.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Tyre Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS).
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Touchscreen.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Rear Window Wiper.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Rear Window Washer.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Child Safety Locks.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Air Quality Control.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Roof Rails.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Curtain Airbag.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Usb Ports.
All variants of Byd Atto 3 have Luggage Hook & Net.
All Byd Atto 3 variants produce a maximum power of 201 Brake Horsepower (BHP).
All Byd Atto 3 variants produce a maximum torque of 310 Newton meters.
All Byd Atto 3 variants have a Automatic transmission.
All Byd Atto 3 variants have a Front-Wheel Drive (FWD) drive type.
All Byd Atto 3 variants run on Electric.
All Byd Atto 3 variants comply with ZEV emission norms.
All Byd Atto 3 variants come with Electric steering.
All Byd Atto 3 variants have Ventilated Disc front brakes.
All Byd Atto 3 variants have Disc rear brakes.
All Byd Atto 3 variants have a length of 4455 mm.
All Byd Atto 3 variants have a width of 1875 mm.
All Byd Atto 3 variants have a height of 1615 mm.
All Byd Atto 3 variants offer 440 Litres of boot space.
All Byd Atto 3 variants have a seating capacity of 5.0.
All Byd Atto 3 variants have an unladen ground clearance of 175 mm.
All Byd Atto 3 variants have a wheelbase of 2720 mm.
Byd Atto 3 variant Dynamic has a kerb weight of 1680 kg.
Byd Atto 3 variants - Premium & Superior share a kerb weight of 1750 kg.
Byd Atto 3 variant Dynamic has a gross weight of 2090 kg.
Byd Atto 3 variants - Premium & Superior share a gross weight of 2160 kg.
All Byd Atto 3 variants have 5.0 doors.
All Byd Atto 3 variants come with a Electronic boot opening mechanism.
Byd Atto 3 variant Dynamic comes with tyres of size 215/60 R17.
Byd Atto 3 variants - Premium & Superior feature tyres of size 215/55 R18.
All Byd Atto 3 variants come with Tyre Type tyres.
All Byd Atto 3 variants come equipped with 7.0 airbags.
All Byd Atto 3 variants have received a 5 Star Global NCAP safety rating.
All Byd Atto 3 variants come with a 12.8 inch touchscreen display.
Byd Atto 3 variant Dynamic features 6.0 speakers.
Byd Atto 3 variants - Premium & Superior come with 8.0 speakers.
All Byd Atto 3 variants feature a Full Digital digital cluster.
All Byd Atto 3 variants come with Leatherette upholstery.
All Byd Atto 3 variants have a front tread of 1575 mm.
All Byd Atto 3 variants have a rear tread of 1580 mm.
All Byd Atto 3 variants are equipped with a Permanent Magnet Synchronous Motor motor type.
All Byd Atto 3 variants are powered by a Blade Battery battery.
All Byd Atto 3 variants offer 1340 Litres of boot space with rear seats folded.
Byd Atto 3 variant Dynamic features a 49.92 kWh battery capacity.
Byd Atto 3 variants - Premium & Superior have the same battery capacity of 60.48 kWh
All Byd Atto 3 variants are equipped with a 150 kW motor power.
Byd Atto 3 variant Dynamic has a driving range of 468 km.
Byd Atto 3 variants - Premium & Superior offer the same range of 521 km.
Byd Atto 3 variant Dynamic requires 8 Hours 7.2 kW for A.C charging.
Byd Atto 3 variants - Premium & Superior share the same A.C charging time of 9.5 Hours to 10 Hours at 7.2 kW.
All Byd Atto 3 variants take 50 Min at 80kW (0-80%) to charge using a D.C charger.
All Byd Atto 3 variants come with a CCS-II charging port.
Byd Atto 3 variant Dynamic accelerates from 0-100 km/h in 7.9 s.
Byd Atto 3 variants - Premium & Superior achieve 0-100 km/h in the same time of 7.3 s.
All Byd Atto 3 variants have All Windows anti-pinch power windows.
All Byd Atto 3 variants have the MacPherson Strut suspension front suspension.
All Byd Atto 3 variants have the Multi-link suspension rear suspension.
All Byd Atto 3 variants are equipped with Front & Rear parking sensors.
All Byd Atto 3 variants come with Front & Rear USB charging ports.
All Byd Atto 3 variants come with a Shark Fin antenna.
All Byd Atto 3 variants feature a 5 inch digital cluster.
All Byd Atto 3 variants have a With Guidedlines rear camera.
All Byd Atto 3 variants have Driver and Passenger seatbelt pretensioners and force limiters.
All Byd Atto 3 variants include Front & Rear speakers.
All Byd Atto 3 variants have Front electric adjustable seats.
All Byd Atto 3 variants have a 60:40 Split foldable rear seat.
All Byd Atto 3 variants have a With Storage central console armrest.
Byd Atto 3 variant with Rear Seat Headrest - Superior.
All Byd Atto 3 variants come with a Panoramic sunroof.
Byd Atto 3 variant Dynamic offers Electric unlock tailgate as additional features.
Byd Atto 3 variants - Premium & Superior share Dirac HD sound, 8 speakers as additional features.