Citroen C5 Aircross has 2 variants: Shine & Shine Dual Tone.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Power Steering.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Air Conditioner.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Heater.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Automatic Climate Control.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Accessory Power Outlet.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Trunk Light.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Vanity Mirror.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Rear Reading Lamp.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Adjustable Headrest.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Rear AC Vents.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Cruise Control.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Engine Start/Stop Button.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Hands-Free Tailgate.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have KeyLess Entry.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Follow Me Home Headlamps.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Tachometer.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Alloy Wheels.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Projector Headlamps.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Automatic Headlamps.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have LED DRLs.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have LED Headlamps.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Anti-lock Braking System (ABS).
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Central Locking.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Driver Airbag.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Side Airbag.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Engine Immobilizer.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Electronic Stability Control (ESC).
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Anti-Theft Device.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have ISOFIX Child Seat Mounts.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Hill Assist.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Radio.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Wireless Phone Charging.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Bluetooth Connectivity.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Android Auto.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Apple CarPlay.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Lumbar Support.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have LED Taillights.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Electronic Brakeforce Distribution (EBD).
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Anti-Theft Alarm.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Glove Box light.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Puddle Lamps.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Hill Descent Control.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Heated Outside Rear View Mirror.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Blind Spot Monitor.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Traction Control.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Height Adjustable Driver Seat.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Rear Window Defogger.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Leather Wrapped Steering Wheel.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Glove Box.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Outside Rear View Mirror Turn Indicators.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Passenger Airbag.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Tyre Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS).
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Touchscreen.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Rear Window Wiper.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Rear Window Washer.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Child Safety Locks.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Rear Spoiler.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Rain Sensing Wiper.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Air Quality Control.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Roof Rails.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Curtain Airbag.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Usb Ports.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Luggage Hook & Net.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have LED Fog Lamps.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants use the DW10 FC engine.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants have a displacement of 1997  cubic centimeters.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants produce a maximum power of 174.33 Brake Horsepower (BHP) at 3750 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants produce a maximum torque of 400 Newton meters at 2000 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants have 4.0 valves per cylinder.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants have a Automatic transmission.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants have 4.0 cylinders.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants come with a 8-Speed gearbox.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants have a Front-Wheel Drive (FWD) drive type.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants run on Diesel.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants comply with BS VI 2.0 emission norms.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants have Disc front brakes.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants have Disc rear brakes.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants have a length of 4500 mm.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants have a width of 1969 mm.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants have a height of 1710 mm.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants offer 580 Litres of boot space.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants have a seating capacity of 5.0.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants have a wheelbase of 2730 mm.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants have a kerb weight of 1685 kg.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants have a gross weight of 2060 kg.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants have 5.0 doors.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants come with a Electronic boot opening mechanism.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants have tyres of size 235/55 R18.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants come with Tubeless Radial tyres.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants come equipped with 6.0 airbags.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants come with a 10 inch touchscreen display.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants come with 6.0 speakers.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants come with 18 Inch front alloy wheels.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants come with 18 Inch rear alloy wheels.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants come with Android Auto, Apple CarPlay connectivity options.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants feature a Full Digital digital cluster.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants come with Leatherette upholstery.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants have All Windows anti-pinch power windows.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants offer a mileage of 17.5 kmpl.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants have a fuel tank capacity of 52.5 Litres.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants have the MacPherson Strut suspension front suspension.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants have the Rear twist beam rear suspension.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants come with Tilt & Telescopic steering adjustment.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Adjustable Steering.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants are equipped with Front & Rear parking sensors.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants come with Front & Rear USB charging ports.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants are equipped with Front & Rear fog lights.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants feature a 12.29 inch digital cluster.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants have a With Guidedlines rear camera.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants have Driver and Passenger seatbelt pretensioners and force limiters.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants include Front & Rear speakers.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants have Front electric adjustable seats.
All variants of Citroen C5 Aircross have Central Console Armrest.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants come with a Panoramic sunroof.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants come with 2 drive modes.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants offer Eco & Sport drive modes.
All Citroen C5 Aircross variants come with Mirror Screen (Apple Carplay™ And Android Auto) - Smartphone Connectivity as additional features.