Force Gurkha has 1 variants: 2.6 Diesel.
Force Gurkha has Power Steering.
Force Gurkha has Air Conditioner.
Force Gurkha has Heater.
Force Gurkha has Accessory Power Outlet.
Force Gurkha has Adjustable Headrest.
Force Gurkha has KeyLess Entry.
Force Gurkha has Idle Start-Stop System.
Force Gurkha has Follow Me Home Headlamps.
Force Gurkha has Tachometer.
Force Gurkha has Alloy Wheels.
Force Gurkha has LED DRLs.
Force Gurkha has LED Headlamps.
Force Gurkha has Anti-lock Braking System (ABS).
Force Gurkha has Central Locking.
Force Gurkha has Driver Airbag.
Force Gurkha has Seat Belt Warning.
Force Gurkha has Engine Immobilizer.
Force Gurkha does not have E-Call & I-Call.
Force Gurkha has Anti-Theft Device.
Force Gurkha has Speed Alert.
Force Gurkha has Speed Sensing Auto Door Lock.
Force Gurkha has ISOFIX Child Seat Mounts.
Force Gurkha has Radio.
Force Gurkha has Bluetooth Connectivity.
Force Gurkha does not have Android Auto.
Force Gurkha does not have Apple CarPlay.
Force Gurkha has Over Speeding Alert.
Force Gurkha has Electronic Brakeforce Distribution (EBD).
Force Gurkha has Anti-Theft Alarm.
Force Gurkha has Lane Change Indicator.
Force Gurkha has Glove Box.
Force Gurkha has Adjustable Headlamps.
Force Gurkha has Passenger Airbag.
Force Gurkha has Day & Night Rear View Mirror.
Force Gurkha has Tyre Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS).
Force Gurkha has Touchscreen.
Force Gurkha has Usb Ports.
Force Gurkha has Integrated 2DIN Audio.
The Force Gurkha has the FM 2.6L CRDi engine.
The Force Gurkha has a displacement of 2596  cubic centimeters.
The Force Gurkha generates 138 Brake Horsepower (BHP) at 3200 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
The Force Gurkha generates 320 Newton meters at 1400 to 2600 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
The Force Gurkha has 4.0 valves per cylinder.
The Force Gurkha has a Manual transmission.
The Force Gurkha has 4.0 cylinders.
The Force Gurkha has a 5-Speed gearbox.
The Force Gurkha has a Four-Wheel Drive (4WD) drive type.
The Force Gurkha runs on Diesel.
The Force Gurkha complies with BS VI 2.0 emission norms.
The Force Gurkha has Hydraulic steering.
The Force Gurkha has a turning radius of 5.65m.
The Force Gurkha has Disc front brakes.
The Force Gurkha has Drum rear brakes.
The Force Gurkha has a length of 3965 mm.
The Force Gurkha has a width of 1865 mm.
The Force Gurkha has a height of 2080 mm.
The Force Gurkha offers 500 Litres of boot space.
The Force Gurkha has a seating capacity of 4.0.
The Force Gurkha has an unladen ground clearance of 233 mm.
The Force Gurkha has a wheelbase of 2400 mm.
The Force Gurkha has 3.0 doors.
The Force Gurkha features a Manual boot opening mechanism.
The Force Gurkha is fitted with tyres of size 255/65 R18.
The Force Gurkha is equipped with Tubeless Radial tyres.
The Force Gurkha comes with 18 Inch wheels.
The Force Gurkha is equipped with 2.0 airbags.
The Force Gurkha is equipped with a 9 inch touchscreen.
The Force Gurkha is equipped with 4.0 speakers.
The Force Gurkha comes with a Full Digital digital cluster.
The Force Gurkha features Fabric upholstery.
The Force Gurkha has a front tread of 1547 mm.
The Force Gurkha features a rear tread of 1490 mm.
The Force Gurkha features an approach angle of 39°.
The Force Gurkha has a break-over angle of 28°.
The Force Gurkha features a departure angle of 37°.
The Force Gurkha delivers a highway mileage of 12 kmpl.
The Force Gurkha comes with a fuel tank capacity of 63.5 Litres.
The Force Gurkha comes with the Multi-link suspension front suspension.
The Force Gurkha comes with the Multi-link suspension rear suspension.
The Force Gurkha features Tilt & Telescopic steering adjustment.
Force Gurkha has Adjustable Steering.
The Force Gurkha features Rear parking sensors.
The Force Gurkha features Front USB charging ports.
The Force Gurkha features Front fog lights.
The Force Gurkha has Front & Rear speakers.
Force Gurkha has Turbo Charger.
Force Gurkha has Rear Seat Headrest.
The Force Gurkha includes USB cable mirroring as additional features.