Kia Ev6 has 2 variants: GT line & GT line AWD.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Power Steering.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Air Conditioner.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Heater.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Automatic Climate Control.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Accessory Power Outlet.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Vanity Mirror.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Rear Reading Lamp.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Adjustable Headrest.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Rear Seat Centre Arm Rest.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Rear AC Vents.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Cruise Control.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Real-Time Vehicle Tracking.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Engine Start/Stop Button.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Voice Commands.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Hands-Free Tailgate.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have KeyLess Entry.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Follow Me Home Headlamps.
All variants of Kia Ev6 do not have Tachometer.
All variants of Kia Ev6 do not have Wheel Covers.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Alloy Wheels.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Integrated Antenna.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Automatic Headlamps.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have LED DRLs.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have LED Headlamps.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Anti-lock Braking System (ABS).
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Central Locking.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Driver Airbag.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Side Airbag.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Seat Belt Warning.
All variants of Kia Ev6 do not have Engine Immobilizer.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have E-Call & I-Call.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Remote AC On/Off.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Side Airbag-Rear.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Electronic Stability Control (ESC).
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Anti-Theft Device.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Speed Alert.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Speed Sensing Auto Door Lock.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have ISOFIX Child Seat Mounts.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Hill Assist.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Impact Sensing Auto Door Unlock.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have 360 View Camera.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Radio.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Wireless Phone Charging.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Bluetooth Connectivity.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Android Auto.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Apple CarPlay.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Driver Attention Warning.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Live Location.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Over the Air (OTA) Updates.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Google / Alexa Connectivity.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Over Speeding Alert.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Smartwatch App.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Valet Mode.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Remote Door Lock/Unlock.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Geo-fence Alert.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Height Adjustable Front Seat Belts.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Lumbar Support.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Paddle Shifters.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Tow Away Alert.
All variants of Kia Ev6 do not have Halogen Headlamps.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have LED Taillights.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Electronic Brakeforce Distribution (EBD).
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Brake Assist.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Anti-Theft Alarm.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Door Ajar Warning.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Digital Odometer.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have SOS / Emergency Assistance.
Kia Ev6 variant with Heads-Up Display (HUD) - GT line AWD.
Kia Ev6 variant without Heads-Up Display (HUD) - GT line.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Forward Collision Warning.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Blind Spot Collision Avoidance Assist.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Lane Keep Assist.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Adaptive Cruise Control.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Adaptive High Beam Assist.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Rear Cross Traffic Collision-Avoidance Assist.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Inbuilt Assistant.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Navigation with Live Traffic.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Send POI to Vehicle From App.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Ventilated Seats.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Battery Saver.
All variants of Kia Ev6 do not have Headlamp Washers.
All variants of Kia Ev6 do not have Heated Outside Rear View Mirror.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Blind Spot Monitor.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Live Weather.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Remote Vehicle Status Check.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have SOS Button.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Voice assisted sunroof.
All variants of Kia Ev6 do not have Convertible Top.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Save Route/Place.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Regenerative Braking.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Fast Charging.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Vehicle to Load Charging.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have RSA.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Hinglish Voice Commands.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Crash Notification.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Height Adjustable Driver Seat.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Rear Window Defogger.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Leather Wrapped Steering Wheel.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Glove Box.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Outside Rear View Mirror Turn Indicators.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Passenger Airbag.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Day & Night Rear View Mirror.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Tyre Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS).
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Touchscreen.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Rear Window Wiper.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Rear Window Washer.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Child Safety Locks.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Rear Spoiler.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Rain Sensing Wiper.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Air Quality Control.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Folding Table in The Rear.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Rear Touchscreen.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Roof Rails.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Cigarette Lighter.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Side Stepper.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Curtain Airbag.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Usb Ports.
All variants of Kia Ev6 do not have Gear Shift Indicator.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have LED Fog Lamps.
Kia Ev6 variant GT line delivers a max power of 225.86 Brake Horsepower (BHP).
Kia Ev6 variant GT line AWD delivers a max power of 320.55 Brake Horsepower (BHP).
Kia Ev6 variant GT line has a max torque of 350 Newton meters.
Kia Ev6 variant GT line AWD has a max torque of 605 Newton meters.
All Kia Ev6 variants have a Automatic transmission.
All Kia Ev6 variants come with a 1-Speed gearbox.
Kia Ev6 variant GT line has a Rear-Wheel Drive (RWD) drive type.
Kia Ev6 variant GT line AWD has a All-Wheel Drive (AWD) drive type.
All Kia Ev6 variants run on Electric.
All Kia Ev6 variants comply with ZEV emission norms.
All Kia Ev6 variants come with Electric steering.
All Kia Ev6 variants have Disc front brakes.
All Kia Ev6 variants have Disc rear brakes.
All Kia Ev6 variants have a length of 4695 mm.
All Kia Ev6 variants have a width of 1890 mm.
All Kia Ev6 variants have a height of 1570 mm.
All Kia Ev6 variants offer 520 Litres of boot space.
All Kia Ev6 variants have a seating capacity of 5.0.
All Kia Ev6 variants have a wheelbase of 2900 mm.
All Kia Ev6 variants have 5.0 doors.
All Kia Ev6 variants come with a Automatic boot opening mechanism.
All Kia Ev6 variants have tyres of size 235/55 R19.
All Kia Ev6 variants come with Tubeless Radial tyres.
All Kia Ev6 variants come equipped with 8.0 airbags.
Kia Ev6 variant GT line has a Global NCAP rating of 5 Star.
All Kia Ev6 variants come with a 12.3 inch touchscreen display.
Kia Ev6 variant GT line features 4.0 speakers.
Kia Ev6 variant GT line AWD features 14.0 speakers.
Kia Ev6 variant GT line features 2.0 tweeters.
All Kia Ev6 variants come with Android Auto, Apple CarPlay connectivity options.
All Kia Ev6 variants feature a Full Digital digital cluster.
All Kia Ev6 variants come with Leather upholstery.
All Kia Ev6 variants offer a boot space of 520 Litres.
All Kia Ev6 variants have a top speed of 192 kmph.
Kia Ev6 variant GT line features a front tread of 1430 mm.
Kia Ev6 variant GT line AWD features a front tread of 1561 mm.
All Kia Ev6 variants use a Rack & Pinion steering gear type.
Kia Ev6 variant GT line comes with a Permanent Magnet Synchronous Motor(R) motor type.
Kia Ev6 variant GT line AWD comes with a Permanent Magnet Synchronous Motor(F&R) motor type.
All Kia Ev6 variants are powered by a Lithium-Ion Battery battery.
All Kia Ev6 variants offer 1300 Litres of boot space with rear seats folded.
All Kia Ev6 variants come with a 77.4 kWh battery capacity.
Kia Ev6 variant GT line has a 168.48 kW motor power.
Kia Ev6 variant GT line AWD has a 239 kW motor power.
All Kia Ev6 variants offer a driving range of 708 km.
Kia Ev6 variant GT line requires 73 Min at 50kW (10%-80%) for D.C charging.
Kia Ev6 variant GT line AWD requires 73 Min at 50kW (10-80%) for D.C charging.
All Kia Ev6 variants come with a CCS-II charging port.
All Kia Ev6 variants take 18 Min at 350kW (10-80%) to charge.
All Kia Ev6 variants have All Windows anti-pinch power windows.
All Kia Ev6 variants take 73Min (10-80%) to charge using a 50 kW DC fast charger.
Kia Ev6 variant GT line has a battery warranty of 8 Years or 160000 km.
Kia Ev6 variant GT line AWD has a battery warranty of 8 Years.
All Kia Ev6 variants have the MacPherson Strut suspension front suspension.
All Kia Ev6 variants have the Multi-link suspension rear suspension.
All Kia Ev6 variants come with Tilt & Telescopic steering adjustment.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Adjustable Steering.
All Kia Ev6 variants are equipped with Front & Rear parking sensors.
All Kia Ev6 variants come with Front & Rear USB charging ports.
All Kia Ev6 variants are equipped with Rear fog lights.
All Kia Ev6 variants come with a Shark Fin antenna.
All Kia Ev6 variants feature a 12.3 inch digital cluster.
All Kia Ev6 variants have a With Guidedlines rear camera.
All Kia Ev6 variants have Driver and Passenger seatbelt pretensioners and force limiters.
All Kia Ev6 variants include Front & Rear speakers.
All Kia Ev6 variants have Front electric adjustable seats.
All Kia Ev6 variants have a 60:40 Split foldable rear seat.
All Kia Ev6 variants have a With Storage central console armrest.
All variants of Kia Ev6 have Inbuilt_Apps.
All variants of Kia Ev6 do not have Knee Airbags.
All Kia Ev6 variants feature ambient lighting with 64 color options.
Kia Ev6 variant with Rear Seat Headrest - GT line.
All Kia Ev6 variants come with a Panoramic sunroof.
All Kia Ev6 variants come with 3 drive modes.
All Kia Ev6 variants offer Eco, Normal & Sport drive modes.
Kia Ev6 variant GT line offers Curved driver display screen & touchscreen navigation, Kia Connect with 60+ Features as additional features.
Kia Ev6 variant GT line AWD offers Meridian premium sound system with 14 speakers and Active sound design, Curved driver display screen & touchscreen navigation, Kia Connect with 60+ Features as additional features.