Kia Carnival has 1 variants: Limousine Plus.
Kia Carnival has Power Steering.
Kia Carnival has Air Conditioner.
Kia Carnival has Heater.
Kia Carnival has Automatic Climate Control.
Kia Carnival has Accessory Power Outlet.
Kia Carnival has Rear Reading Lamp.
Kia Carnival has Adjustable Headrest.
Kia Carnival has Rear AC Vents.
Kia Carnival has Cruise Control.
Kia Carnival has Engine Start/Stop Button.
Kia Carnival has KeyLess Entry.
Kia Carnival has Idle Start-Stop System.
Kia Carnival has Follow Me Home Headlamps.
Kia Carnival has Tachometer.
Kia Carnival does not have Wheel Covers.
Kia Carnival has Alloy Wheels.
Kia Carnival has Projector Headlamps.
Kia Carnival has Automatic Headlamps.
Kia Carnival has LED DRLs.
Kia Carnival has LED Headlamps.
Kia Carnival has Anti-lock Braking System (ABS).
Kia Carnival has Central Locking.
Kia Carnival has Driver Airbag.
Kia Carnival has Side Airbag.
Kia Carnival has Seat Belt Warning.
Kia Carnival has Engine Immobilizer.
Kia Carnival has Side Airbag-Rear.
Kia Carnival has Electronic Stability Control (ESC).
Kia Carnival has Anti-Theft Device.
Kia Carnival has Speed Alert.
Kia Carnival has Speed Sensing Auto Door Lock.
Kia Carnival has ISOFIX Child Seat Mounts.
Kia Carnival has Hill Assist.
Kia Carnival has Impact Sensing Auto Door Unlock.
Kia Carnival has 360 View Camera.
Kia Carnival has Radio.
Kia Carnival has Wireless Phone Charging.
Kia Carnival has Bluetooth Connectivity.
Kia Carnival has Android Auto.
Kia Carnival has Apple CarPlay.
Kia Carnival has Driver Attention Warning.
Kia Carnival has Over the Air (OTA) Updates.
Kia Carnival has Geo-fence Alert.
Kia Carnival has Height Adjustable Front Seat Belts.
Kia Carnival has Lumbar Support.
Kia Carnival has Paddle Shifters.
Kia Carnival has LED Taillights.
Kia Carnival has Electronic Brakeforce Distribution (EBD).
Kia Carnival has Anti-Theft Alarm.
Kia Carnival has Door Ajar Warning.
Kia Carnival has SOS / Emergency Assistance.
Kia Carnival has Blind Spot Camera.
Kia Carnival has Heads-Up Display (HUD).
Kia Carnival has Forward Collision Warning.
Kia Carnival has Speed Assist System.
Kia Carnival has Blind Spot Collision Avoidance Assist.
Kia Carnival has Lane Departure Warning.
Kia Carnival has Lane Keep Assist.
Kia Carnival has Adaptive Cruise Control.
Kia Carnival has Leading Vehicle Departure Alert.
Kia Carnival has Adaptive High Beam Assist.
Kia Carnival has Rear Cross Traffic Alert.
Kia Carnival has Rear Cross Traffic Collision-Avoidance Assist.
Kia Carnival has Glove Box light.
Kia Carnival has Ventilated Seats.
Kia Carnival has Puddle Lamps.
Kia Carnival has Hill Descent Control.
Kia Carnival has Blind Spot Monitor.
Kia Carnival has Tailgate Ajar Warning.
Kia Carnival has Height Adjustable Driver Seat.
Kia Carnival has Rear Window Defogger.
Kia Carnival has Glove Box.
Kia Carnival has Adjustable Headlamps.
Kia Carnival has Outside Rear View Mirror Turn Indicators.
Kia Carnival has Passenger Airbag.
Kia Carnival has Day & Night Rear View Mirror.
Kia Carnival has Tyre Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS).
Kia Carnival has Touchscreen.
Kia Carnival has Rear Window Wiper.
Kia Carnival has Rear Window Washer.
Kia Carnival has Child Safety Locks.
Kia Carnival has Rear Spoiler.
Kia Carnival has Rain Sensing Wiper.
Kia Carnival has Roof Rails.
Kia Carnival has Curtain Airbag.
Kia Carnival has Usb Ports.
Kia Carnival has LED Fog Lamps.
The Kia Carnival has the Smartstream In-line engine.
The Kia Carnival has a displacement of 2151  cubic centimeters.
The Kia Carnival generates 190 Brake Horsepower (BHP).
The Kia Carnival generates 441 Newton meters.
The Kia Carnival has 4.0 valves per cylinder.
The Kia Carnival has a Automatic transmission.
The Kia Carnival has 4.0 cylinders.
The Kia Carnival has a 8-Speed gearbox.
The Kia Carnival has a Two-Wheel Drive (2WD) drive type.
The Kia Carnival runs on Diesel.
The Kia Carnival complies with BS VI 2.0 emission norms.
The Kia Carnival has Electric steering.
The Kia Carnival has Disc front brakes.
The Kia Carnival has Disc rear brakes.
The Kia Carnival has a length of 5155 mm.
The Kia Carnival has a width of 1995 mm.
The Kia Carnival has a height of 1775 mm.
The Kia Carnival has a seating capacity of 7.0.
The Kia Carnival has a wheelbase of 3090 mm.
The Kia Carnival has 5.0 doors.
The Kia Carnival features a Powered boot opening mechanism.
The Kia Carnival is equipped with Powered & Folding Outside Rear View Mirror (ORVM).
The Kia Carnival is fitted with tyres of size 235/60 R18.
The Kia Carnival is equipped with Tubeless Radial tyres.
The Kia Carnival is equipped with 8.0 airbags.
The Kia Carnival is equipped with a 12.3 inch touchscreen.
The Kia Carnival is equipped with 12.0 speakers.
The Kia Carnival features 18 Inch front alloy wheels.
The Kia Carnival features 18 Inch rear alloy wheels.
The Kia Carnival comes with a Full Digital digital cluster.
The Kia Carnival features Leather upholstery.
The Kia Carnival is equipped with a Common Rail Direct Injection (CRDi) fuel supply system.
The Kia Carnival features Driver's Window anti-pinch power windows.
The Kia Carnival delivers a mileage of 14.85 kmpl.
The Kia Carnival comes with a fuel tank capacity of 72 Litres.
The Kia Carnival comes with the MacPherson Strut suspension front suspension.
The Kia Carnival comes with the Multi-link suspension rear suspension.
The Kia Carnival features Tilt & Telescopic steering adjustment.
The Kia Carnival features Height & Reach steering adjustability.
The Kia Carnival features Front & Rear parking sensors.
The Kia Carnival features Front & Rear USB charging ports.
The Kia Carnival features Front & Rear power windows.
The Kia Carnival features Front & Rear cup holders.
The Kia Carnival features Front & Rear fog lights.
The Kia Carnival features a Shark Fin antenna.
The Kia Carnival has a 12.3 inch digital cluster.
The Kia Carnival has a With Guidedlines rear camera.
The Kia Carnival has Driver and Passenger seatbelt pretensioners and force limiters.
The Kia Carnival has Front & Rear speakers.
The Kia Carnival has Front electric adjustable seats.
The Kia Carnival has a 2nd Row Captain Seats Tumble Fold foldable rear seat.
Kia Carnival has Central Console Armrest.
The Kia Carnival features inbuilt apps such as Kia Connect.
The Kia Carnival offers ambient lighting with 64 color choices.
The Kia Carnival includes Adjustable rear seat headrests.
The Kia Carnival includes a Dual Sunroof sunroof.
The Kia Carnival has 4 drive modes.
The Kia Carnival features Eco, Normal, Sport, & Smart drive modes.
The Kia Carnival includes Wireless Android Auto & Apple CarPlay as additional features.