Lexus Es has 2 variants: 300h Exquisite & 300h Luxury.
All variants of Lexus Es have Power Steering.
All variants of Lexus Es have Air Conditioner.
All variants of Lexus Es have Heater.
All variants of Lexus Es have Automatic Climate Control.
All variants of Lexus Es have Accessory Power Outlet.
All variants of Lexus Es have Trunk Light.
All variants of Lexus Es have Vanity Mirror.
All variants of Lexus Es have Rear Reading Lamp.
All variants of Lexus Es have Adjustable Headrest.
All variants of Lexus Es have Rear Seat Centre Arm Rest.
All variants of Lexus Es have Rear AC Vents.
All variants of Lexus Es have Cruise Control.
All variants of Lexus Es have Real-Time Vehicle Tracking.
All variants of Lexus Es have Engine Start/Stop Button.
All variants of Lexus Es have Voice Commands.
All variants of Lexus Es have Hands-Free Tailgate.
All variants of Lexus Es have Chrome Grille.
All variants of Lexus Es have KeyLess Entry.
All variants of Lexus Es have Follow Me Home Headlamps.
All variants of Lexus Es have Tachometer.
All variants of Lexus Es do not have Wheel Covers.
All variants of Lexus Es have Alloy Wheels.
All variants of Lexus Es have Integrated Antenna.
All variants of Lexus Es have Projector Headlamps.
All variants of Lexus Es have Automatic Headlamps.
All variants of Lexus Es have LED DRLs.
All variants of Lexus Es have LED Headlamps.
All variants of Lexus Es have Anti-lock Braking System (ABS).
All variants of Lexus Es have Central Locking.
All variants of Lexus Es have Driver Airbag.
All variants of Lexus Es have Side Airbag.
All variants of Lexus Es have Seat Belt Warning.
All variants of Lexus Es have Engine Immobilizer.
All variants of Lexus Es do not have E-Call & I-Call.
All variants of Lexus Es have Side Airbag-Rear.
All variants of Lexus Es have Electronic Stability Control (ESC).
All variants of Lexus Es have Anti-Theft Device.
All variants of Lexus Es have Speed Alert.
All variants of Lexus Es have Speed Sensing Auto Door Lock.
All variants of Lexus Es have ISOFIX Child Seat Mounts.
All variants of Lexus Es have Hill Assist.
All variants of Lexus Es have Impact Sensing Auto Door Unlock.
Lexus Es variant without 360 View Camera - 300h Exquisite.
All variants of Lexus Es have Radio.
Lexus Es variant with Wireless Phone Charging - 300h Luxury.
All variants of Lexus Es have Bluetooth Connectivity.
All variants of Lexus Es have Android Auto.
All variants of Lexus Es have Apple CarPlay.
All variants of Lexus Es have Height Adjustable Front Seat Belts.
All variants of Lexus Es have Lumbar Support.
All variants of Lexus Es have Paddle Shifters.
All variants of Lexus Es have Dual Tone Dashboard.
All variants of Lexus Es have LED Taillights.
All variants of Lexus Es have Electronic Brakeforce Distribution (EBD).
All variants of Lexus Es have Brake Assist.
All variants of Lexus Es have Anti-Theft Alarm.
All variants of Lexus Es have Door Ajar Warning.
All variants of Lexus Es have Digital Odometer.
All variants of Lexus Es have SOS / Emergency Assistance.
Lexus Es variant with Heads-Up Display (HUD) - 300h Luxury.
Lexus Es variant without Heads-Up Display (HUD) - 300h Exquisite.
Lexus Es variant with Automatic Emergency Braking - 300h Exquisite.
Lexus Es variant with Speed Assist System - 300h Exquisite.
All variants of Lexus Es have Glove Box light.
All variants of Lexus Es have Ventilated Seats.
Lexus Es variant with Hill Descent Control - 300h Exquisite.
All variants of Lexus Es have Active noise cancellation.
All variants of Lexus Es do not have Battery Saver.
All variants of Lexus Es have Rear Window Sunblind.
All variants of Lexus Es have Rear Windscreen Sunblind.
Lexus Es variant with Leather wrap gear-shift selector - 300h Exquisite.
Lexus Es variant without Leather wrap gear-shift selector - 300h Luxury.
All variants of Lexus Es do not have Blind Spot Monitor.
All variants of Lexus Es have Remote Boot Open.
All variants of Lexus Es have Tailgate Ajar Warning.
All variants of Lexus Es have Remote Fuel Lid Opener.
All variants of Lexus Es have Lane Change Indicator.
All variants of Lexus Es have Cornering Headlamps.
All variants of Lexus Es do not have Xenon Headlamps.
All variants of Lexus Es have Acoustic Vehicle Alert System.
All variants of Lexus Es do not have Super Charge.
All variants of Lexus Es have Height Adjustable Driver Seat.
All variants of Lexus Es have Rear Window Defogger.
All variants of Lexus Es have Leather Wrapped Steering Wheel.
All variants of Lexus Es have Glove Box.
All variants of Lexus Es have Adjustable Headlamps.
All variants of Lexus Es have Outside Rear View Mirror Turn Indicators.
All variants of Lexus Es have Passenger Airbag.
All variants of Lexus Es have Day & Night Rear View Mirror.
All variants of Lexus Es have Tyre Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS).
All variants of Lexus Es have Touchscreen.
Lexus Es variant with Rear Window Wiper - 300h Luxury.
Lexus Es variant with Rear Window Washer - 300h Luxury.
All variants of Lexus Es have Chrome Garnish.
All variants of Lexus Es have Child Safety Locks.
All variants of Lexus Es have Rear Spoiler.
All variants of Lexus Es have Rain Sensing Wiper.
All variants of Lexus Es have Air Quality Control.
Lexus Es variant with Tinted Glass - 300h Luxury.
All variants of Lexus Es have Folding Table in The Rear.
All variants of Lexus Es have Smart Access Card Entry.
All variants of Lexus Es have Roof Rails.
All variants of Lexus Es have Cigarette Lighter.
All variants of Lexus Es have Roof Carrier.
All variants of Lexus Es have Side Stepper.
All variants of Lexus Es have Curtain Airbag.
All variants of Lexus Es have Usb Ports.
All variants of Lexus Es have Gear Shift Indicator.
All variants of Lexus Es have Luggage Hook & Net.
All variants of Lexus Es have Integrated 2DIN Audio.
Lexus Es variant with Rear Curtain - 300h Luxury.
Lexus Es variant 300h Exquisite has the A25B-FXS engine.
Lexus Es variant 300h Luxury has the 2AR-FXE engine.
All Lexus Es variants have a displacement of 2487  cubic centimeters.
All Lexus Es variants produce a maximum power of 175.67 Brake Horsepower (BHP) at 5700 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
All Lexus Es variants produce a maximum torque of 221 Newton meters at 3600 to 5200 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
All Lexus Es variants have 4.0 valves per cylinder.
All Lexus Es variants have a Automatic transmission.
All Lexus Es variants have 4.0 cylinders.
All Lexus Es variants come with a E-CVT gearbox.
All Lexus Es variants have a Rear-Wheel Drive (RWD) drive type.
All Lexus Es variants run on Petrol.
All Lexus Es variants comply with BS VI emission norms.
All Lexus Es variants come with Electric steering.
All Lexus Es variants have a turning radius of 5.9m.
Lexus Es variant 300h Exquisite has Disc front brakes.
Lexus Es variant 300h Luxury has Ventilated Disc front brakes.
Lexus Es variant 300h Exquisite has Disc rear brakes.
Lexus Es variant 300h Luxury has Ventilated Disc rear brakes.
All Lexus Es variants have a length of 4975 mm.
All Lexus Es variants have a width of 1865 mm.
All Lexus Es variants have a height of 1445 mm.
All Lexus Es variants offer 454 Litres of boot space.
All Lexus Es variants have a seating capacity of 5.0.
Lexus Es variant 300h Exquisite has a wheelbase of 2587 mm.
Lexus Es variant 300h Luxury has a wheelbase of 3022 mm.
All Lexus Es variants have 4.0 doors.
All Lexus Es variants come with a Electronic boot opening mechanism.
All Lexus Es variants have tyres of size 235/45 R18.
All Lexus Es variants come with Tubeless Radial tyres.
All Lexus Es variants come equipped with 10.0 airbags.
All Lexus Es variants come with a 12.3 inch touchscreen display.
Lexus Es variant 300h Exquisite features 10.0 speakers.
Lexus Es variant 300h Luxury features 17.0 speakers.
All Lexus Es variants use Electric as a secondary fuel type.
All Lexus Es variants come with 18 Inch front alloy wheels.
All Lexus Es variants come with 18 Inch rear alloy wheels.
All Lexus Es variants come with Android Auto, Apple CarPlay connectivity options.
All Lexus Es variants feature a Multi-Information Display (MID) digital cluster.
All Lexus Es variants come with Leather upholstery.
All Lexus Es variants have a front tread of 1531 mm.
All Lexus Es variants come with a DOHC valve configuration.
All Lexus Es variants use a Rack & Pinion steering gear type.
All Lexus Es variants use a VVT-iE fuel supply system.
Lexus Es variant 300h Luxury includes 1.0 subwoofer(s).
All Lexus Es variants come with gas-pressurized shock absorbers and stabilizer bar shock absorbers.
Lexus Es variant 300h Exquisite has Driver's Window anti-pinch power windows.
Lexus Es variant 300h Luxury has All Windows anti-pinch power windows.
All Lexus Es variants provide a highway mileage of 22.5 kmpl.
All Lexus Es variants have a fuel tank capacity of 50 Litres.
All Lexus Es variants have the MacPherson Strut suspension front suspension.
All Lexus Es variants have the Double wishbone suspension rear suspension.
All Lexus Es variants come with Tilt & Telescopic steering adjustment.
All variants of Lexus Es have Adjustable Steering.
All Lexus Es variants are equipped with Front & Rear parking sensors.
All Lexus Es variants come with Front & Rear USB charging ports.
All Lexus Es variants have Front & Rear power windows.
All Lexus Es variants come with Front & Rear cup holders.
All Lexus Es variants are equipped with Front fog lights.
All Lexus Es variants come with a Shark Fin antenna.
All Lexus Es variants feature a 7 inch digital cluster.
All Lexus Es variants have a With Guidedlines rear camera.
All Lexus Es variants have Driver and Passenger seatbelt pretensioners and force limiters.
All Lexus Es variants include Front & Rear speakers.
All Lexus Es variants have Front electric adjustable seats.
All variants of Lexus Es do not have Foldable Rear Seat.
All variants of Lexus Es have Central Console Armrest.
All variants of Lexus Es have Turbo Charger.
All Lexus Es variants come with Driver knee airbags.
All variants of Lexus Es do not have Autonomous Parking.
All Lexus Es variants come with Adjustable rear seat headrests.
Lexus Es variant 300h Exquisite offers a Single Pane sunroof.
Lexus Es variant 300h Luxury offers a Dual Pane sunroof.
All Lexus Es variants come with 3 drive modes.
Lexus Es variant 300h Exquisite offers 2 Audio Jack USB(Type-A) + 1 AUX-in 12 V DC Connector and USB(Type-A) Port for Charging (2) , Electro Multi Vision Touch Display , Multimedia Audio System(Lexus Premium Audio), Smartphone connectivity (Wireless Apple Car Play / Wired Android Auto as additional features.
Lexus Es variant 300h Luxury offers 2 Audio Jack , AUX-in 12 V DC Connector , Electro Multi Vision Touch Display , Multimedia Audio System((Mark Levinson, Mark levinson 17 speakers (front 3 speakers,4 door speakers, 2 front door woofers, 1 rear subwoofers, 1 amplifier))), Smartphone connectivity (Wireless Apple Car Play / Wired Android Auto, as additional features.