Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv has 2 variants: 450 4Matic & 580 4Matic.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Power Steering.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Air Conditioner.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Heater.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Automatic Climate Control.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Accessory Power Outlet.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Trunk Light.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Vanity Mirror.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Rear Reading Lamp.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Adjustable Headrest.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Rear Seat Centre Arm Rest.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Rear AC Vents.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Real-Time Vehicle Tracking.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Engine Start/Stop Button.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Voice Commands.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv do not have Hands-Free Tailgate.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have KeyLess Entry.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Idle Start-Stop System.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Follow Me Home Headlamps.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Tachometer.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Alloy Wheels.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Automatic Headlamps.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have LED DRLs.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have LED Headlamps.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Anti-lock Braking System (ABS).
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Central Locking.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Driver Airbag.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Side Airbag.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Seat Belt Warning.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant with E-Call & I-Call - 580 4Matic.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant with Remote AC On/Off - 580 4Matic.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv do not have Side Airbag-Rear.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Electronic Stability Control (ESC).
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Anti-Theft Device.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Speed Alert.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Speed Sensing Auto Door Lock.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have ISOFIX Child Seat Mounts.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Hill Assist.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Impact Sensing Auto Door Unlock.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have 360 View Camera.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Radio.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Wireless Phone Charging.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Bluetooth Connectivity.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Android Auto.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Apple CarPlay.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant with Driver Attention Warning - 580 4Matic.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant with Live Location - 580 4Matic.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant with Over the Air (OTA) Updates - 580 4Matic.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant with Google / Alexa Connectivity - 580 4Matic.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant with Over Speeding Alert - 580 4Matic.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant with Smartwatch App - 580 4Matic.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant with Valet Mode - 580 4Matic.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant with Remote Door Lock/Unlock - 580 4Matic.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant with Geo-fence Alert - 580 4Matic.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Height Adjustable Front Seat Belts.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Lumbar Support.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have LED Taillights.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Electronic Brakeforce Distribution (EBD).
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Brake Assist.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Anti-Theft Alarm.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Door Ajar Warning.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant with Remote Immobiliser - 580 4Matic.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant with SOS / Emergency Assistance - 580 4Matic.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant with Forward Collision Warning - 580 4Matic.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant with Automatic Emergency Braking - 580 4Matic.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant with Speed Assist System - 580 4Matic.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant with Traffic Sign Recognition - 580 4Matic.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant with Blind Spot Collision Avoidance Assist - 580 4Matic.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant with Lane Departure Warning - 580 4Matic.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant with Lane Keep Assist - 580 4Matic.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant with Lane Departure Prevention Assist - 580 4Matic.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant with Leading Vehicle Departure Alert - 580 4Matic.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant with Adaptive High Beam Assist - 580 4Matic.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant with Rear Cross Traffic Alert - 580 4Matic.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant with Rear Cross Traffic Collision-Avoidance Assist - 580 4Matic.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Cooled Glovebox.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Glove Box light.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant with Navigation with Live Traffic - 580 4Matic.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant with Send POI to Vehicle From App - 580 4Matic.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant with In Car Remote Control App - 580 4Matic.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Ventilated Seats.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Hill Descent Control.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Battery Saver.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Leather wrap gear-shift selector.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Blind Spot Monitor.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant with Digital Car Key - 580 4Matic.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant with Live Weather - 580 4Matic.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Tailgate Ajar Warning.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant with Remote Vehicle Status Check - 580 4Matic.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant with SOS Button - 580 4Matic.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Lane Change Indicator.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Wi-Fi Connectivity.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant with Save Route/Place - 580 4Matic.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Regenerative Braking.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Fast Charging.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Traction Control.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant with RSA - 580 4Matic.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant with Hinglish Voice Commands - 580 4Matic.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Height Adjustable Driver Seat.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Rear Window Defogger.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Leather Wrapped Steering Wheel.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Glove Box.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Adjustable Headlamps.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Outside Rear View Mirror Turn Indicators.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Passenger Airbag.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Day & Night Rear View Mirror.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Tyre Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS).
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Touchscreen.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Rear Window Wiper.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Rear Window Washer.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Child Safety Locks.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Rear Spoiler.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Rain Sensing Wiper.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Air Quality Control.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Curtain Airbag.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have Usb Ports.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant without Gear Shift Indicator - 450 4Matic.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant with Luggage Hook & Net - 580 4Matic.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant without Luggage Hook & Net - 450 4Matic.
All variants of Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv have LED Fog Lamps.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant without Rear Curtain - 450 4Matic.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant 450 4Matic delivers a max power of 355 Brake Horsepower (BHP).
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant 580 4Matic delivers a max power of 536.40 Brake Horsepower (BHP).
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant 450 4Matic has a max torque of 800 Newton meters.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant 580 4Matic has a max torque of 858 Newton meters.
All Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variants have a Automatic transmission.
All Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variants come with a 1-Speed gearbox.
All Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variants have a All-Wheel Drive (AWD) drive type.
All Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variants run on Electric.
All Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variants comply with ZEV emission norms.
All Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variants come with Electric steering.
All Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variants have Disc front brakes.
All Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variants have Disc rear brakes.
All Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variants have a length of 5136 mm.
All Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variants have a width of 1965 mm.
All Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variants have a height of 1718 mm.
All Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variants offer 610 Litres of boot space.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant 450 4Matic has a seating capacity of 5.0.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant 580 4Matic has a seating capacity of 7.0.
All Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variants have a wheelbase of 3210 mm.
All Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variants have 5.0 doors.
All Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variants come with a Electronic boot opening mechanism.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant 580 4Matic has Powered & Folding Outside Rear View Mirror (ORVM).
All Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variants come with Unknown tyres.
All Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variants come equipped with 6.0 airbags.
All Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variants come with a unknown touchscreen display.
All Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variants come with 15.0 speakers.
All Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variants come with Leatherette upholstery.
All Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variants offer a boot space of 610 Litres.
All Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variants have a top speed of 210 kmph.
All Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variants are equipped with a Permanently excited synchronous motor type.
All Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variants come with a 122 kWh battery capacity.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant 450 4Matic has a 265 kW motor power.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant 580 4Matic has a 400 kW motor power.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant 450 4Matic has a driving range of 820 km.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant 580 4Matic has a driving range of 809 km.
All Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variants accelerate from 0-100 km/h in 4.7 s.
All Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variants have All Windows anti-pinch power windows.
All Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variants have Powered Adjustment steering adjustability.
All Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variants are equipped with Front & Rear parking sensors.
All Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variants come with Front & Rear USB charging ports.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant 580 4Matic has Front & Rear power windows.
Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variant 580 4Matic has Front & Rear cup holders.
All Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variants are equipped with Front fog lights.
All Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variants have a With Guidedlines rear camera.
All Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variants have Driver and Passenger seatbelt pretensioners and force limiters.
All Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variants include Front & Rear speakers.
All Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variants have Front & Rear electric adjustable seats.
All Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variants have a With Storage central console armrest.
All Mercedes Benz Eqs Suv variants come with Adjustable rear seat headrests.