Mercedes Benz Eqs has 1 variants: 580 4Matic.
Mercedes Benz Eqs has Power Steering.
Mercedes Benz Eqs has Air Conditioner.
Mercedes Benz Eqs has Heater.
Mercedes Benz Eqs has Adjustable Headrest.
Mercedes Benz Eqs has LED DRLs.
Mercedes Benz Eqs has Side Airbag.
Mercedes Benz Eqs has Side Airbag-Rear.
Mercedes Benz Eqs has Paddle Shifters.
Mercedes Benz Eqs has Cornering Headlamps.
Mercedes Benz Eqs does not have Fast Charging.
Mercedes Benz Eqs does not have Leather Seats.
Mercedes Benz Eqs has Rear Window Defogger.
Mercedes Benz Eqs has Leather Wrapped Steering Wheel.
Mercedes Benz Eqs has Passenger Airbag.
Mercedes Benz Eqs has Heated Wing Mirror.
Mercedes Benz Eqs has Fog Lights - Front.
The Mercedes Benz Eqs generates 750.97 Brake Horsepower (BHP).
The Mercedes Benz Eqs generates 855 Newton meters.
The Mercedes Benz Eqs has a Automatic transmission.
The Mercedes Benz Eqs has a 1-Speed gearbox.
The Mercedes Benz Eqs has a All-Wheel Drive (AWD) drive type.
The Mercedes Benz Eqs runs on Electric.
The Mercedes Benz Eqs complies with ZEV emission norms.
The Mercedes Benz Eqs has a length of 5216 mm.
The Mercedes Benz Eqs has a width of 2125 mm.
The Mercedes Benz Eqs has a height of 1512 mm.
The Mercedes Benz Eqs offers 610 Litres of boot space.
The Mercedes Benz Eqs has a seating capacity of 5.0.
The Mercedes Benz Eqs has a wheelbase of 2585 mm.
The Mercedes Benz Eqs has a kerb weight of 2585 kg.
The Mercedes Benz Eqs has 4.0 doors.
The Mercedes Benz Eqs is equipped with Unknown tyres.
The Mercedes Benz Eqs is equipped with 9.0 airbags.
The Mercedes Benz Eqs achieves a top speed of 210 kmph.
The Mercedes Benz Eqs has a front tread of 1615 mm.
The Mercedes Benz Eqs features a Two permanently excited synchronous motors motor type.
The Mercedes Benz Eqs comes with a Lithium-Ion Battery battery.
The Mercedes Benz Eqs is equipped with a Smart trunk opener.
The Mercedes Benz Eqs has a battery capacity of 107.8 kWh.
The Mercedes Benz Eqs provides a range of 857 km.
The Mercedes Benz Eqs is equipped with a CCS-II charging port.
The Mercedes Benz Eqs reaches 0-100 km/h in 4.3 s.
The Mercedes Benz Eqs offers a battery warranty of 8 Years or 160000 km.
The Mercedes Benz Eqs comes with the Air suspension front suspension.
The Mercedes Benz Eqs comes with the Air suspension rear suspension.
Mercedes Benz Eqs has Rear Seat Headrest.
The Mercedes Benz Eqs includes Electric Art interior( 1 Seats with lumbar support, 2 head restraints in the front and lighting (ARTICO man-made leather in black / space grey). 3 Black trim in a finely-structured look. 4 Door sill panels with “Mercedes-Benz” lettering. 5 Velor floor mats.6 Ambience lighting) as additional features.