Porsche Panamera has 2 variants: STD Hybrid & GTS.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Power Steering.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Air Conditioner.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Heater.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Automatic Climate Control.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Accessory Power Outlet.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Trunk Light.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Vanity Mirror.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Cruise Control.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Engine Start/Stop Button.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Voice Commands.
All variants of Porsche Panamera do not have Hands-Free Tailgate.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have KeyLess Entry.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Follow Me Home Headlamps.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Tachometer.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Alloy Wheels.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Integrated Antenna.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Automatic Headlamps.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have LED DRLs.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have LED Headlamps.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Anti-lock Braking System (ABS).
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Central Locking.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Driver Airbag.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Side Airbag.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Seat Belt Warning.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Engine Immobilizer.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Side Airbag-Rear.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Electronic Stability Control (ESC).
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Speed Alert.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Speed Sensing Auto Door Lock.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have ISOFIX Child Seat Mounts.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Impact Sensing Auto Door Unlock.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Radio.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Wireless Phone Charging.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Bluetooth Connectivity.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Android Auto.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Apple CarPlay.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Height Adjustable Front Seat Belts.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Dual Tone Dashboard.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have LED Taillights.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Brake Assist.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Anti-Theft Alarm.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Door Ajar Warning.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Digital Odometer.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Ventilated Seats.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Hill Descent Control.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Leather wrap gear-shift selector.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Blind Spot Monitor.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Tailgate Ajar Warning.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Cornering Headlamps.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Traction Control.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Height Adjustable Driver Seat.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Leather Wrapped Steering Wheel.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Glove Box.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Adjustable Headlamps.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Passenger Airbag.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Day & Night Rear View Mirror.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Tyre Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS).
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Touchscreen.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Child Safety Locks.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Rear Spoiler.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Usb Ports.
Porsche Panamera variant without Gear Shift Indicator - GTS.
Porsche Panamera variant with Luggage Hook & Net - STD Hybrid.
Porsche Panamera variant without Luggage Hook & Net - GTS.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have LED Fog Lamps.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Integrated 2DIN Audio.
Porsche Panamera variant without Rear Curtain - GTS.
All Porsche Panamera variants use the 2.9-litre V6 bi-turbo engine engine.
Porsche Panamera variant STD Hybrid has a displacement of 2897  cubic centimeters.
Porsche Panamera variant GTS has a displacement of 3996  cubic centimeters.
All Porsche Panamera variants produce a maximum power of 670.51 Brake Horsepower (BHP).
All Porsche Panamera variants produce a maximum torque of 930 Newton meters.
All Porsche Panamera variants have 4.0 valves per cylinder.
All Porsche Panamera variants have a Automatic transmission.
All Porsche Panamera variants have 6.0 cylinders.
All Porsche Panamera variants come with a 8-Speed gearbox.
All Porsche Panamera variants have a All-Wheel Drive (AWD) drive type.
All Porsche Panamera variants run on Petrol.
All Porsche Panamera variants comply with BS VI 2.0 emission norms.
All Porsche Panamera variants come with Electric steering.
All Porsche Panamera variants have Disc front brakes.
All Porsche Panamera variants have Disc rear brakes.
All Porsche Panamera variants have a length of 5049 mm.
All Porsche Panamera variants have a width of 1937 mm.
All Porsche Panamera variants have a height of 1423 mm.
All Porsche Panamera variants offer 494 Litres of boot space.
All Porsche Panamera variants have a seating capacity of 4.0.
All Porsche Panamera variants have 4.0 doors.
All Porsche Panamera variants come with a Electronic boot opening mechanism.
All Porsche Panamera variants come with Unknown tyres.
All Porsche Panamera variants come equipped with 10.0 airbags.
All Porsche Panamera variants come with 10.0 speakers.
All Porsche Panamera variants feature a Full Digital digital cluster.
All Porsche Panamera variants come with Leather upholstery.
All Porsche Panamera variants have a top speed of 310 kmph.
All Porsche Panamera variants have Driver's Window anti-pinch power windows.
All Porsche Panamera variants provide a highway mileage of 20 kmpl.
Porsche Panamera variant STD Hybrid features a fuel tank capacity of 50 Litres.
All Porsche Panamera variants have the Air suspension front suspension.
All Porsche Panamera variants have the Air suspension rear suspension.
All Porsche Panamera variants come with Tilt & Telescopic steering adjustment.
Porsche Panamera variant with Adjustable Steering - STD Hybrid.
Porsche Panamera variant without Adjustable Steering - GTS.
All Porsche Panamera variants are equipped with Rear parking sensors.
All Porsche Panamera variants come with Front USB charging ports.
All Porsche Panamera variants are equipped with Front fog lights.
All Porsche Panamera variants feature a 12.6 inch digital cluster.
All Porsche Panamera variants have a With Guidedlines rear camera.
All Porsche Panamera variants have Driver and Passenger seatbelt pretensioners and force limiters.
All Porsche Panamera variants include Front & Rear speakers.
All Porsche Panamera variants have Front & Rear electric adjustable seats.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Central Console Armrest.
All variants of Porsche Panamera have Turbo Charger.
All Porsche Panamera variants come with Front end with active air intake flaps as additional features.