Porsche Macan has 3 variants: Standard, S & GTS.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Power Steering.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Air Conditioner.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Heater.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Automatic Climate Control.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Accessory Power Outlet.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Trunk Light.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Vanity Mirror.
All variants of Porsche Macan do not have Rear Reading Lamp.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Rear Seat Centre Arm Rest.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Rear AC Vents.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Cruise Control.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Engine Start/Stop Button.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Voice Commands.
Porsche Macan variants with Hands-Free Tailgate - S & GTS.
All variants of Porsche Macan do not have Chrome Grille.
All variants of Porsche Macan have KeyLess Entry.
All variants of Porsche Macan do not have Follow Me Home Headlamps.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Tachometer.
All variants of Porsche Macan do not have Wheel Covers.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Alloy Wheels.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Integrated Antenna.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Automatic Headlamps.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Anti-lock Braking System (ABS).
All variants of Porsche Macan have Central Locking.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Driver Airbag.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Side Airbag.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Seat Belt Warning.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Engine Immobilizer.
Porsche Macan variant with Side Airbag-Rear - Standard.
Porsche Macan variants without Side Airbag-Rear - S & GTS.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Anti-Theft Device.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Speed Sensing Auto Door Lock.
All variants of Porsche Macan have ISOFIX Child Seat Mounts.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Hill Assist.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Impact Sensing Auto Door Unlock.
All variants of Porsche Macan do not have 360 View Camera.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Radio.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Bluetooth Connectivity.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Height Adjustable Front Seat Belts.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Lumbar Support.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Paddle Shifters.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Electronic Multi-Tripmeter.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Digital Clock.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Outside Temperature Display.
All variants of Porsche Macan do not have Dual Tone Dashboard.
All variants of Porsche Macan do not have Power Antenna.
All variants of Porsche Macan do not have Halogen Headlamps.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Brake Assist.
Porsche Macan variant with Power Door Locks - Standard.
All variants of Porsche Macan do not have Anti-Theft Alarm.
Porsche Macan variant with Passenger Side Rear View Mirror - Standard.
Porsche Macan variant with Rear Seat Belts - Standard.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Door Ajar Warning.
Porsche Macan variant with Adjustable Seats - Standard.
Porsche Macan variant with Crash Sensor - Standard.
Porsche Macan variant with EBD - Standard.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Digital Odometer.
All variants of Porsche Macan do not have Heads-Up Display (HUD).
All variants of Porsche Macan do not have Cooled Glovebox.
All variants of Porsche Macan do not have Hill Descent Control.
All variants of Porsche Macan do not have Smoke Headlamps.
All variants of Porsche Macan do not have Blind Spot Monitor.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Tailgate Ajar Warning.
All variants of Porsche Macan do not have Remote Trunk Opener.
All variants of Porsche Macan do not have Remote Fuel Lid Opener.
Porsche Macan variant with Centrally Mounted Fuel Tank - Standard.
Porsche Macan variant with Engine Check Warning - Standard.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Lane Change Indicator.
All variants of Porsche Macan do not have Xenon Headlamps.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Traction Control.
All variants of Porsche Macan do not have Rear Entertainment System.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Leather Seats.
All variants of Porsche Macan do not have Driving Experience Control Eco.
All variants of Porsche Macan do not have Fog Lights - Rear.
All variants of Porsche Macan do not have Internal Storage.
All variants of Porsche Macan do not have Super Charge.
Porsche Macan variant with Side Impact Beams - Standard.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Height Adjustable Driver Seat.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Rear Window Defogger.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Leather Wrapped Steering Wheel.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Glove Box.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Adjustable Headlamps.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Outside Rear View Mirror Turn Indicators.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Passenger Airbag.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Day & Night Rear View Mirror.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Tyre Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS).
All variants of Porsche Macan have Touchscreen.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Rear Window Wiper.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Rear Window Washer.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Chrome Garnish.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Child Safety Locks.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Rear Spoiler.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Rain Sensing Wiper.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Air Quality Control.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Tinted Glass.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Folding Table in The Rear.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Navigation System.
Porsche Macan variant with Front Impact Beams - Standard.
Porsche Macan variant with Vehicle Stability Control System - Standard.
Porsche Macan variant without Clutch Lock - Standard.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Smart Access Card Entry.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Fabric Upholstery.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Roof Rails.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Cigarette Lighter.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Roof Carrier.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Side Stepper.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Usb Ports.
All variants of Porsche Macan do not have Gear Shift Indicator.
All variants of Porsche Macan do not have Luggage Hook & Net.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Low Fuel Warning Light.
All variants of Porsche Macan do not have Fog Lights - Front.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Integrated 2DIN Audio.
All variants of Porsche Macan have USB & Auxiliary input.
All variants of Porsche Macan do not have Rear Curtain.
All variants of Porsche Macan do not have Audio System Remote Control.
All Porsche Macan variants use the Twin-Turbocharged Engine engine.
Porsche Macan variant Standard has a displacement of 1984  cubic centimeters.
Porsche Macan variants - S & GTS share a displacement of 2894  cubic centimeters.
Porsche Macan variant Standard delivers a max power of 261.49 Brake Horsepower (BHP) at 5000 to 6500 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
Porsche Macan variant S delivers a max power of 375.48 Brake Horsepower (BHP) at 5200 to 6700 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
Porsche Macan variant GTS delivers a max power of 434.49 Brake Horsepower (BHP) at 5700 to 6600 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
Porsche Macan variant Standard has a max torque of 400 Newton meters at 1800 to 4500 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
Porsche Macan variant S has a max torque of 520 Newton meters at 1850 to 5000 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
Porsche Macan variant GTS has a max torque of 550 Newton meters at 1900 to 5600 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
All Porsche Macan variants have 4.0 valves per cylinder.
All Porsche Macan variants have a Automatic transmission.
Porsche Macan variant Standard has 4.0 cylinders.
Porsche Macan variants - S & GTS have 6.0 cylinders.
All Porsche Macan variants come with a 7-Speed PDK gearbox.
All Porsche Macan variants have a All-Wheel Drive (AWD) drive type.
All Porsche Macan variants run on Petrol.
All Porsche Macan variants comply with BS VI 2.0 emission norms.
All Porsche Macan variants come with Power steering.
Porsche Macan variant Standard has a turning radius of 12.0m.
Porsche Macan variant GTS has a turning radius of 12m.
All Porsche Macan variants have Ventilated Disc front brakes.
All Porsche Macan variants have Ventilated Disc rear brakes.
All Porsche Macan variants have a length of 4726 mm.
All Porsche Macan variants have a width of 2097 mm.
Porsche Macan variant Standard has a height of 1621 mm.
Porsche Macan variant S has a height of 1624 mm.
Porsche Macan variant GTS has a height of 1596 mm.
All Porsche Macan variants offer 458 Litres of boot space.
All Porsche Macan variants have a seating capacity of 5.0.
Porsche Macan variants - Standard & S share an unladen ground clearance of 202 mm.
Porsche Macan variant GTS has an unladen ground clearance of 285 mm.
All Porsche Macan variants have a wheelbase of 2600 mm.
Porsche Macan variant Standard has a kerb weight of 1845 kg.
Porsche Macan variant S has a kerb weight of 1930 kg.
Porsche Macan variant GTS has a kerb weight of 1960 kg.
Porsche Macan variant Standard has a gross weight of 2510 kg.
Porsche Macan variants - S & GTS share a gross weight of 2580 kg.
All Porsche Macan variants have 5.0 doors.
Porsche Macan variant GTS comes with tyres of size F265/40;R21 R295/35;R21.
All Porsche Macan variants come with Unknown tyres.
Porsche Macan variant Standard is equipped with R19 Inch wheels.
All Porsche Macan variants come equipped with 6.0 airbags.
All Porsche Macan variants come with a 10.9 inch touchscreen display.
All Porsche Macan variants come with 10.0 speakers.
All Porsche Macan variants come with Android Auto, Apple CarPlay connectivity options.
Porsche Macan variant Standard has a top speed of 232 kmph.
Porsche Macan variant S has a top speed of 259 kmph.
Porsche Macan variant GTS has a top speed of 272 kmph.
Porsche Macan variant Standard accelerates from 0-100 kmph in 6.4 s.
Porsche Macan variant S accelerates from 0-100 kmph in 4.8 s.
Porsche Macan variant GTS accelerates from 0-100 kmph in 4.5 s.
Porsche Macan variant Standard accelerates from 0-100 kmph in 6.4 s.
Porsche Macan variant S accelerates from 0-100 kmph in 4.8 s.
Porsche Macan variant GTS accelerates from 0-100 kmph in 4.5 s.
All Porsche Macan variants use a Rack & Pinion steering gear type.
All Porsche Macan variants feature a Smart trunk opener.
Porsche Macan variant Standard has All Windows anti-pinch power windows.
Porsche Macan variants - Standard & S have highway mileage figures of 10.2 kmpl.
Porsche Macan variant GTS has a highway mileage of 10.1 kmpl.
All Porsche Macan variants have a fuel tank capacity of 65 Litres.
All Porsche Macan variants come with Tilt & Telescopic steering adjustment.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Adjustable Steering.
All Porsche Macan variants are equipped with Rear parking sensors.
All variants of Porsche Macan do not have Rear Camera.
Porsche Macan variant with Pretensioners & Force Limiter Seatbelts - Standard.
All Porsche Macan variants include Front & Rear speakers.
All Porsche Macan variants have Front electric adjustable seats.
All variants of Porsche Macan do not have Foldable Rear Seat.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Central Console Armrest.
Porsche Macan variants with Turbo Charger - Standard & S.
Porsche Macan variant GTS has a Twin turbocharger.
All variants of Porsche Macan do not have Knee Airbags.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Rear Seat Headrest.
All variants of Porsche Macan have Sunroof.
All Porsche Macan variants come with 2 drive modes.
All Porsche Macan variants come with Sound Package Plus with 150-watt output as additional features.