Pravaig Defy has 1 variants: Hacker Edition.
Pravaig Defy has Power Steering.
Pravaig Defy has Air Conditioner.
Pravaig Defy has Heater.
Pravaig Defy has Automatic Climate Control.
Pravaig Defy has Rear AC Vents.
Pravaig Defy has Cruise Control.
Pravaig Defy has Engine Start/Stop Button.
Pravaig Defy has Voice Commands.
Pravaig Defy has Alloy Wheels.
Pravaig Defy has LED DRLs.
Pravaig Defy has LED Headlamps.
Pravaig Defy has Anti-lock Braking System (ABS).
Pravaig Defy has Central Locking.
Pravaig Defy has Driver Airbag.
Pravaig Defy has Side Airbag.
Pravaig Defy has Engine Immobilizer.
Pravaig Defy does not have Side Airbag-Rear.
Pravaig Defy has Electronic Stability Control (ESC).
Pravaig Defy has 360 View Camera.
Pravaig Defy has Power Antenna.
Pravaig Defy has LED Taillights.
Pravaig Defy has Anti-Theft Alarm.
Pravaig Defy has Cooled Glovebox.
Pravaig Defy has Fast Charging.
Pravaig Defy has Leather Seats.
Pravaig Defy has Adjustable Headlamps.
Pravaig Defy has Passenger Airbag.
Pravaig Defy has Tyre Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS).
Pravaig Defy has Child Safety Locks.
Pravaig Defy has Rear Spoiler.
Pravaig Defy has Air Quality Control.
Pravaig Defy has Tinted Glass.
Pravaig Defy has LED Fog Lamps.
Pravaig Defy has Fog Lights - Front.
The Pravaig Defy generates 402 Brake Horsepower (BHP).
The Pravaig Defy generates 620 Newton meters.
The Pravaig Defy has a Automatic transmission.
The Pravaig Defy has a 1-Speed gearbox.
The Pravaig Defy has a All-Wheel Drive (AWD) drive type.
The Pravaig Defy runs on Electric.
The Pravaig Defy complies with ZEV emission norms.
The Pravaig Defy has a length of 4940 mm.
The Pravaig Defy has a width of 1940 mm.
The Pravaig Defy has a height of 1650 mm.
The Pravaig Defy offers 680 Litres of boot space.
The Pravaig Defy has a seating capacity of 4.0.
The Pravaig Defy has an unladen ground clearance of 234 mm.
The Pravaig Defy has a wheelbase of 2750 mm.
The Pravaig Defy has a gross weight of 2061 kg.
The Pravaig Defy has 5.0 doors.
The Pravaig Defy is equipped with Unknown tyres.
The Pravaig Defy is equipped with 6.0 airbags.
The Pravaig Defy achieves a top speed of 210.2 kmph.
The Pravaig Defy has a front tread of 1520 mm.
The Pravaig Defy features a PMSM dual high efficiency motors motor type.
The Pravaig Defy comes with a Lithium-Ion Battery battery.
The Pravaig Defy has a battery capacity of 90.9 kWh.
The Pravaig Defy features a motor with 300 kW power.
The Pravaig Defy provides a range of 500 km.
The Pravaig Defy charges in 30 Mins using a D.C charger.
The Pravaig Defy is equipped with a CCS-I charging port.
The Pravaig Defy reaches 0-100 km/h in 4.9 s.
The Pravaig Defy comes with the Double wishbone suspension front suspension.
The Pravaig Defy comes with the Double wishbone suspension rear suspension.
The Pravaig Defy features Front & Rear parking sensors.
The Pravaig Defy has Front electric adjustable seats.
Pravaig Defy has Sunroof.
The Pravaig Defy includes Devialet Premium Sound, In-car 5G Internet, streaming music & media as additional features.