Skoda Superb has 1 variants: L&K.
Skoda Superb has Power Steering.
Skoda Superb has Air Conditioner.
Skoda Superb has Heater.
Skoda Superb has Automatic Climate Control.
Skoda Superb has Accessory Power Outlet.
Skoda Superb has Trunk Light.
Skoda Superb has Vanity Mirror.
Skoda Superb has Rear Reading Lamp.
Skoda Superb has Adjustable Headrest.
Skoda Superb has Rear Seat Centre Arm Rest.
Skoda Superb has Rear AC Vents.
Skoda Superb has Real-Time Vehicle Tracking.
Skoda Superb has Engine Start/Stop Button.
Skoda Superb has Voice Commands.
Skoda Superb has Hands-Free Tailgate.
Skoda Superb has Chrome Grille.
Skoda Superb has KeyLess Entry.
Skoda Superb has Tachometer.
Skoda Superb does not have Wheel Covers.
Skoda Superb has Alloy Wheels.
Skoda Superb has LED DRLs.
Skoda Superb has LED Headlamps.
Skoda Superb has Anti-lock Braking System (ABS).
Skoda Superb has Central Locking.
Skoda Superb has Driver Airbag.
Skoda Superb has Side Airbag.
Skoda Superb has Seat Belt Warning.
Skoda Superb has Engine Immobilizer.
Skoda Superb has E-Call & I-Call.
Skoda Superb has Side Airbag-Rear.
Skoda Superb has Electronic Stability Control (ESC).
Skoda Superb has Anti-Theft Device.
Skoda Superb has Speed Alert.
Skoda Superb has Speed Sensing Auto Door Lock.
Skoda Superb has ISOFIX Child Seat Mounts.
Skoda Superb has Hill Assist.
Skoda Superb has Impact Sensing Auto Door Unlock.
Skoda Superb has 360 View Camera.
Skoda Superb has Radio.
Skoda Superb has Wireless Phone Charging.
Skoda Superb has Bluetooth Connectivity.
Skoda Superb has Android Auto.
Skoda Superb has Apple CarPlay.
Skoda Superb has Driver Attention Warning.
Skoda Superb has Live Location.
Skoda Superb has Over the Air (OTA) Updates.
Skoda Superb has Over Speeding Alert.
Skoda Superb has Valet Mode.
Skoda Superb has Remote Door Lock/Unlock.
Skoda Superb has Geo-fence Alert.
Skoda Superb has Height Adjustable Front Seat Belts.
Skoda Superb has Lumbar Support.
Skoda Superb has Dual Tone Dashboard.
Skoda Superb has LED Taillights.
Skoda Superb has Electronic Brakeforce Distribution (EBD).
Skoda Superb has Brake Assist.
Skoda Superb has Anti-Theft Alarm.
Skoda Superb has Door Ajar Warning.
Skoda Superb has SOS / Emergency Assistance.
Skoda Superb has Cooled Glovebox.
Skoda Superb has Glove Box light.
Skoda Superb has Ventilated Seats.
Skoda Superb has Puddle Lamps.
Skoda Superb has Cornering Foglamps.
Skoda Superb has Headlamp Washers.
Skoda Superb has Remote Boot Open.
Skoda Superb has Tailgate Ajar Warning.
Skoda Superb has SOS Button.
Skoda Superb has RSA.
Skoda Superb has Height Adjustable Driver Seat.
Skoda Superb has Rear Window Defogger.
Skoda Superb has Leather Wrapped Steering Wheel.
Skoda Superb has Glove Box.
Skoda Superb has Adjustable Headlamps.
Skoda Superb has Outside Rear View Mirror Turn Indicators.
Skoda Superb has Passenger Airbag.
Skoda Superb has Day & Night Rear View Mirror.
Skoda Superb has Tyre Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS).
Skoda Superb has Touchscreen.
Skoda Superb has Rear Window Wiper.
Skoda Superb has Rear Window Washer.
Skoda Superb has Chrome Garnish.
Skoda Superb has Child Safety Locks.
Skoda Superb has Rain Sensing Wiper.
Skoda Superb has Air Quality Control.
Skoda Superb has Curtain Airbag.
Skoda Superb has Usb Ports.
Skoda Superb has Luggage Hook & Net.
Skoda Superb has LED Fog Lamps.
The Skoda Superb has the 2.0 TSI Engine engine.
The Skoda Superb has a displacement of 1984  cubic centimeters.
The Skoda Superb generates 187.74 Brake Horsepower (BHP) at 4200 to 6000 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
The Skoda Superb generates 320 Newton meters at 1500 to 4100 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
The Skoda Superb has 4.0 valves per cylinder.
The Skoda Superb has a Automatic transmission.
The Skoda Superb has 4.0 cylinders.
The Skoda Superb has a 7-Speed-DSG gearbox.
The Skoda Superb has a Front-Wheel Drive (FWD) drive type.
The Skoda Superb runs on Petrol.
The Skoda Superb complies with BS VI 2.0 emission norms.
The Skoda Superb has Electric steering.
The Skoda Superb has a turning radius of 11.1m.
The Skoda Superb has Disc front brakes.
The Skoda Superb has Disc rear brakes.
The Skoda Superb has a length of 4869 mm.
The Skoda Superb has a width of 1864 mm.
The Skoda Superb has a height of 1503 mm.
The Skoda Superb offers 625 Litres of boot space.
The Skoda Superb has a seating capacity of 5.0.
The Skoda Superb has an unladen ground clearance of 151 mm.
The Skoda Superb has a wheelbase of 2836 mm.
The Skoda Superb has a kerb weight of 1565 kg.
The Skoda Superb has a gross weight of 2140 kg.
The Skoda Superb has 5.0 doors.
The Skoda Superb is fitted with tyres of size 235/45 R18.
The Skoda Superb is equipped with Tubeless Radial tyres.
The Skoda Superb is equipped with 9.0 airbags.
The Skoda Superb has been rated 5 Star by Global NCAP.
The Skoda Superb is equipped with a 9.19 inch touchscreen.
The Skoda Superb is equipped with 11.0 speakers.
The Skoda Superb features 18 Inch front alloy wheels.
The Skoda Superb features 18 Inch rear alloy wheels.
The Skoda Superb features Android Auto, Apple CarPlay connectivity options.
The Skoda Superb comes with a Full Digital digital cluster.
The Skoda Superb features Leather upholstery.
The Skoda Superb is equipped with a Direct Injection (Di) fuel supply system.
The Skoda Superb features 1.0 subwoofer(s).
The Skoda Superb provides 1760 Litres of boot space when the rear seats are folded.
The Skoda Superb features Driver's Window anti-pinch power windows.
The Skoda Superb has a laden ground clearance of 122 mm mm.
The Skoda Superb delivers a highway mileage of 15 kmpl.
The Skoda Superb comes with a fuel tank capacity of 66 Litres.
The Skoda Superb comes with the Multi-link suspension front suspension.
The Skoda Superb comes with the Multi-link suspension rear suspension.
The Skoda Superb features Tilt & Telescopic steering adjustment.
Skoda Superb has Adjustable Steering.
The Skoda Superb features Front & Rear parking sensors.
The Skoda Superb features Front & Rear USB charging ports.
The Skoda Superb features Front & Rear fog lights.
The Skoda Superb features a Shark Fin antenna.
The Skoda Superb has a With Guidedlines rear camera.
The Skoda Superb has Driver and Passenger seatbelt pretensioners and force limiters.
The Skoda Superb has Front & Rear speakers.
The Skoda Superb has Front electric adjustable seats.
The Skoda Superb has a 60:40 Split foldable rear seat.
The Skoda Superb has a With Storage central console armrest.
Skoda Superb has Turbo Charger.
The Skoda Superb features inbuilt apps such as MySkoda.
The Skoda Superb has Driver knee airbags.
Skoda Superb has Rear Seat Headrest.
The Skoda Superb includes Central infotainment system with proximity sensor as additional features.