Skoda Kodiaq has 1 variants: L & K.
Skoda Kodiaq has Power Steering.
Skoda Kodiaq has Air Conditioner.
Skoda Kodiaq has Heater.
Skoda Kodiaq has Automatic Climate Control.
Skoda Kodiaq has Accessory Power Outlet.
Skoda Kodiaq has Trunk Light.
Skoda Kodiaq has Vanity Mirror.
Skoda Kodiaq has Rear Reading Lamp.
Skoda Kodiaq has Adjustable Headrest.
Skoda Kodiaq has Rear Seat Centre Arm Rest.
Skoda Kodiaq has Rear AC Vents.
Skoda Kodiaq has Cruise Control.
Skoda Kodiaq has Engine Start/Stop Button.
Skoda Kodiaq has Voice Commands.
Skoda Kodiaq has Hands-Free Tailgate.
Skoda Kodiaq has KeyLess Entry.
Skoda Kodiaq has Follow Me Home Headlamps.
Skoda Kodiaq has Tachometer.
Skoda Kodiaq has Alloy Wheels.
Skoda Kodiaq has Integrated Antenna.
Skoda Kodiaq has LED DRLs.
Skoda Kodiaq has LED Headlamps.
Skoda Kodiaq has Anti-lock Braking System (ABS).
Skoda Kodiaq has Central Locking.
Skoda Kodiaq has Driver Airbag.
Skoda Kodiaq has Side Airbag.
Skoda Kodiaq has Seat Belt Warning.
Skoda Kodiaq has Engine Immobilizer.
Skoda Kodiaq does not have E-Call & I-Call.
Skoda Kodiaq has Side Airbag-Rear.
Skoda Kodiaq has Electronic Stability Control (ESC).
Skoda Kodiaq has Speed Alert.
Skoda Kodiaq has ISOFIX Child Seat Mounts.
Skoda Kodiaq has Hill Assist.
Skoda Kodiaq has 360 View Camera.
Skoda Kodiaq has Radio.
Skoda Kodiaq has Wireless Phone Charging.
Skoda Kodiaq has Bluetooth Connectivity.
Skoda Kodiaq has Android Auto.
Skoda Kodiaq has Apple CarPlay.
Skoda Kodiaq has Over Speeding Alert.
Skoda Kodiaq has Remote Door Lock/Unlock.
Skoda Kodiaq has Height Adjustable Front Seat Belts.
Skoda Kodiaq has Lumbar Support.
Skoda Kodiaq has Paddle Shifters.
Skoda Kodiaq has LED Taillights.
Skoda Kodiaq has Electronic Brakeforce Distribution (EBD).
Skoda Kodiaq has Brake Assist.
Skoda Kodiaq has Anti-Theft Alarm.
Skoda Kodiaq has Door Ajar Warning.
Skoda Kodiaq has Cooled Glovebox.
Skoda Kodiaq has Glove Box light.
Skoda Kodiaq has Ventilated Seats.
Skoda Kodiaq has Hill Descent Control.
Skoda Kodiaq has Active noise cancellation.
Skoda Kodiaq has Rear Window Sunblind.
Skoda Kodiaq has Leather wrap gear-shift selector.
Skoda Kodiaq has Headlamp Washers.
Skoda Kodiaq has Heated Outside Rear View Mirror.
Skoda Kodiaq has Remote Boot Open.
Skoda Kodiaq has Tailgate Ajar Warning.
Skoda Kodiaq has Traction Control.
Skoda Kodiaq has Acoustic Vehicle Alert System.
Skoda Kodiaq has Height Adjustable Driver Seat.
Skoda Kodiaq has Rear Window Defogger.
Skoda Kodiaq has Leather Wrapped Steering Wheel.
Skoda Kodiaq has Glove Box.
Skoda Kodiaq has Adjustable Headlamps.
Skoda Kodiaq has Outside Rear View Mirror Turn Indicators.
Skoda Kodiaq has Passenger Airbag.
Skoda Kodiaq has Day & Night Rear View Mirror.
Skoda Kodiaq has Tyre Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS).
Skoda Kodiaq has Touchscreen.
Skoda Kodiaq has Child Safety Locks.
Skoda Kodiaq has Rear Spoiler.
Skoda Kodiaq has Rain Sensing Wiper.
Skoda Kodiaq has Air Quality Control.
Skoda Kodiaq has Roof Rails.
Skoda Kodiaq has Curtain Airbag.
Skoda Kodiaq has Usb Ports.
Skoda Kodiaq has Luggage Hook & Net.
Skoda Kodiaq has Integrated 2DIN Audio.
The Skoda Kodiaq has the Turbocharged Petrol Engine engine.
The Skoda Kodiaq has a displacement of 1984  cubic centimeters.
The Skoda Kodiaq generates 187.74 Brake Horsepower (BHP) at 4200 to 6000 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
The Skoda Kodiaq generates 320 Newton meters at 1500 to 4100 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
The Skoda Kodiaq has 4.0 valves per cylinder.
The Skoda Kodiaq has a Automatic transmission.
The Skoda Kodiaq has 4.0 cylinders.
The Skoda Kodiaq has a 7-Speed-DSG gearbox.
The Skoda Kodiaq has a Four-Wheel Drive (4WD) drive type.
The Skoda Kodiaq runs on Petrol.
The Skoda Kodiaq complies with BS VI 2.0 emission norms.
The Skoda Kodiaq has Electric steering.
The Skoda Kodiaq has Disc front brakes.
The Skoda Kodiaq has Disc rear brakes.
The Skoda Kodiaq has a length of 4699 mm.
The Skoda Kodiaq has a width of 1882 mm.
The Skoda Kodiaq has a height of 1685 mm.
The Skoda Kodiaq offers 270 Litres of boot space.
The Skoda Kodiaq has a seating capacity of 7.0.
The Skoda Kodiaq has a wheelbase of 2791 mm.
The Skoda Kodiaq has a kerb weight of 1793 kg.
The Skoda Kodiaq has a gross weight of 2493 kg.
The Skoda Kodiaq has 5.0 doors.
The Skoda Kodiaq features a Electronic boot opening mechanism.
The Skoda Kodiaq is fitted with tyres of size 235/55 R18.
The Skoda Kodiaq is equipped with Tubeless Radial tyres.
The Skoda Kodiaq is equipped with 9.0 airbags.
The Skoda Kodiaq has been rated 5 Star by Global NCAP.
The Skoda Kodiaq is equipped with a 8 inch touchscreen.
The Skoda Kodiaq is equipped with 12.0 speakers.
The Skoda Kodiaq features 18 Inch front alloy wheels.
The Skoda Kodiaq features 18 Inch rear alloy wheels.
The Skoda Kodiaq features Android Auto, Apple CarPlay connectivity options.
The Skoda Kodiaq comes with a Full Digital digital cluster.
The Skoda Kodiaq features Leather upholstery.
The Skoda Kodiaq achieves a top speed of 210 kmph.
The Skoda Kodiaq is equipped with a Rack & Pinion steering gear type.
The Skoda Kodiaq features 1.0 subwoofer(s).
The Skoda Kodiaq provides 2005 Litres of boot space when the rear seats are folded.
The Skoda Kodiaq features All Windows anti-pinch power windows.
The Skoda Kodiaq has a laden ground clearance of 140 mm mm.
The Skoda Kodiaq delivers a mileage of 13.32 kmpl.
The Skoda Kodiaq comes with a fuel tank capacity of 58 Litres.
The Skoda Kodiaq comes with the McPherson suspension with lower triangular links and torsion stabiliser front suspension.
The Skoda Kodiaq comes with the Multi-element axle, with longitudinal and transverse links, with torsion stabiliser rear suspension.
The Skoda Kodiaq features Tilt & Telescopic steering adjustment.
Skoda Kodiaq has Adjustable Steering.
The Skoda Kodiaq features Front & Rear parking sensors.
The Skoda Kodiaq features Front USB charging ports.
The Skoda Kodiaq features Front & Rear fog lights.
The Skoda Kodiaq features a Shark Fin antenna.
The Skoda Kodiaq has a 10.24 inch digital cluster.
The Skoda Kodiaq has a With Guidedlines rear camera.
The Skoda Kodiaq has Driver and Passenger seatbelt pretensioners and force limiters.
The Skoda Kodiaq has Front & Rear speakers.
The Skoda Kodiaq has Front electric adjustable seats.
The Skoda Kodiaq has a 40:20:40 Split foldable rear seat.
The Skoda Kodiaq has a With Storage central console armrest.
Skoda Kodiaq has Turbo Charger.
The Skoda Kodiaq features inbuilt apps such as MySkoda.
The Skoda Kodiaq has Driver knee airbags.
Skoda Kodiaq has Rear Seat Headrest.
The Skoda Kodiaq includes a Panoramic sunroof.
The Skoda Kodiaq has 6 drive modes.
The Skoda Kodiaq includes 20.32 cm ŠKODA Infotainment System with Proximity Sensor & navigation System,CANTON Sound System with 12 high performance speakers & subwoofer with 625W output as additional features.