Tata Tiago Nrg has 2 variants: XZ & XZ CNG.
All variants of Tata Tiago Nrg have Power Steering.
All variants of Tata Tiago Nrg have Air Conditioner.
All variants of Tata Tiago Nrg have Heater.
All variants of Tata Tiago Nrg have Accessory Power Outlet.
All variants of Tata Tiago Nrg have Vanity Mirror.
All variants of Tata Tiago Nrg have Adjustable Headrest.
Tata Tiago Nrg variant with Cruise Control - XZ.
All variants of Tata Tiago Nrg have Engine Start/Stop Button.
All variants of Tata Tiago Nrg have KeyLess Entry.
All variants of Tata Tiago Nrg have Follow Me Home Headlamps.
All variants of Tata Tiago Nrg have Tachometer.
All variants of Tata Tiago Nrg have Wheel Covers.
All variants of Tata Tiago Nrg have Projector Headlamps.
All variants of Tata Tiago Nrg have Automatic Headlamps.
All variants of Tata Tiago Nrg have Anti-lock Braking System (ABS).
All variants of Tata Tiago Nrg have Central Locking.
All variants of Tata Tiago Nrg have Driver Airbag.
All variants of Tata Tiago Nrg have Seat Belt Warning.
All variants of Tata Tiago Nrg have Engine Immobilizer.
All variants of Tata Tiago Nrg do not have Side Airbag-Rear.
All variants of Tata Tiago Nrg have Electronic Stability Control (ESC).
Tata Tiago Nrg variant with Speed Sensing Auto Door Lock - XZ.
Tata Tiago Nrg variant with ISOFIX Child Seat Mounts - XZ.
All variants of Tata Tiago Nrg have Radio.
All variants of Tata Tiago Nrg have Bluetooth Connectivity.
All variants of Tata Tiago Nrg have Android Auto.
All variants of Tata Tiago Nrg have Apple CarPlay.
All variants of Tata Tiago Nrg have Electronic Brakeforce Distribution (EBD).
All variants of Tata Tiago Nrg have Cooled Glovebox.
All variants of Tata Tiago Nrg have Height Adjustable Driver Seat.
All variants of Tata Tiago Nrg have Rear Window Defogger.
All variants of Tata Tiago Nrg have Glove Box.
All variants of Tata Tiago Nrg have Outside Rear View Mirror Turn Indicators.
All variants of Tata Tiago Nrg have Passenger Airbag.
All variants of Tata Tiago Nrg have Day & Night Rear View Mirror.
All variants of Tata Tiago Nrg have Touchscreen.
All variants of Tata Tiago Nrg have Rear Window Wiper.
All variants of Tata Tiago Nrg have Rear Window Washer.
All variants of Tata Tiago Nrg have Rear Spoiler.
All variants of Tata Tiago Nrg have Rain Sensing Wiper.
All variants of Tata Tiago Nrg have Roof Rails.
All variants of Tata Tiago Nrg have Usb Ports.
All variants of Tata Tiago Nrg have Gear Shift Indicator.
Tata Tiago Nrg variant XZ has the 1.2L Revotron engine.
Tata Tiago Nrg variant XZ CNG has the 1.2 l i-CNG engine.
All Tata Tiago Nrg variants have a displacement of 1199  cubic centimeters.
Tata Tiago Nrg variant XZ delivers a max power of 84.82 Brake Horsepower (BHP) at 6000 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
Tata Tiago Nrg variant XZ CNG delivers a max power of 72 Brake Horsepower (BHP) at 6000 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
Tata Tiago Nrg variant XZ has a max torque of 113 Newton meters at 3300 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
Tata Tiago Nrg variant XZ CNG has a max torque of 95 Newton meters at 3500 Revolutions Per Minute (RPM).
All Tata Tiago Nrg variants have 4.0 valves per cylinder.
All Tata Tiago Nrg variants have a Manual transmission.
All Tata Tiago Nrg variants have 3.0 cylinders.
All Tata Tiago Nrg variants come with a 5-Speed gearbox.
All Tata Tiago Nrg variants have a Front-Wheel Drive (FWD) drive type.
Tata Tiago Nrg variant XZ runs on Petrol.
Tata Tiago Nrg variant XZ CNG runs on CNG.
All Tata Tiago Nrg variants comply with BS VI 2.0 emission norms.
All Tata Tiago Nrg variants come with Electric steering.
All Tata Tiago Nrg variants have Disc front brakes.
All Tata Tiago Nrg variants have Drum rear brakes.
All Tata Tiago Nrg variants have a length of 3802 mm.
All Tata Tiago Nrg variants have a width of 1677 mm.
All Tata Tiago Nrg variants have a height of 1537 mm.
Tata Tiago Nrg variant XZ offers 242 Litres of boot space.
Tata Tiago Nrg variant XZ CNG offers 240 Litres of boot space.
All Tata Tiago Nrg variants have a seating capacity of 5.0.
Tata Tiago Nrg variant XZ has an unladen ground clearance of 181 mm.
Tata Tiago Nrg variant XZ CNG has an unladen ground clearance of 177 mm.
All Tata Tiago Nrg variants have a wheelbase of 2400 mm.
Tata Tiago Nrg variant XZ has a kerb weight of 990-1006 kg.
Tata Tiago Nrg variant XZ CNG has a kerb weight of 1097-1100 kg.
All Tata Tiago Nrg variants have 5.0 doors.
All Tata Tiago Nrg variants come with a Electronic boot opening mechanism.
All Tata Tiago Nrg variants have Powered & Folding Outside Rear View Mirror (ORVM).
Tata Tiago Nrg variant XZ comes with tyres of size 175/60 R15.
Tata Tiago Nrg variant XZ CNG comes with tyres of size 175/65 R14.
All Tata Tiago Nrg variants come with Tubeless Radial tyres.
Tata Tiago Nrg variant XZ is equipped with 15 Inch wheels.
Tata Tiago Nrg variant XZ CNG is equipped with 14 Inch wheels.
All Tata Tiago Nrg variants come equipped with 2.0 airbags.
All Tata Tiago Nrg variants have received a 4 Star Global NCAP safety rating.
All Tata Tiago Nrg variants have a 3 Star Global NCAP child safety rating.
All Tata Tiago Nrg variants come with a 7 inch touchscreen display.
All Tata Tiago Nrg variants come with 4.0 speakers.
All Tata Tiago Nrg variants come with 4.0 tweeters.
All Tata Tiago Nrg variants feature a Semi Digital digital cluster.
All Tata Tiago Nrg variants come with Fabric upholstery.
Tata Tiago Nrg variant XZ CNG provides 240 Litres boot space.
All Tata Tiago Nrg variants have a top speed of 150 kmph.
Tata Tiago Nrg variant XZ provides a mileage of 20.09 kmpl.
Tata Tiago Nrg variant XZ CNG provides a mileage of 26.49 km/kg.
Tata Tiago Nrg variant XZ features a fuel tank capacity of 35 Litres.
Tata Tiago Nrg variant XZ CNG features a fuel tank capacity of 60 Litres.
All Tata Tiago Nrg variants have the MacPherson Strut suspension front suspension.
All Tata Tiago Nrg variants have the Rear twist beam rear suspension.
All Tata Tiago Nrg variants come with Tilt Steering steering adjustment.
All variants of Tata Tiago Nrg have Adjustable Steering.
All Tata Tiago Nrg variants are equipped with Rear parking sensors.
All Tata Tiago Nrg variants come with Front USB charging ports.
All Tata Tiago Nrg variants have Front & Rear power windows.
All Tata Tiago Nrg variants are equipped with Front fog lights.
All Tata Tiago Nrg variants feature a 2.5 inch digital cluster.
All Tata Tiago Nrg variants have a With Guidedlines rear camera.
All Tata Tiago Nrg variants have Driver and Passenger seatbelt pretensioners and force limiters.
All Tata Tiago Nrg variants include Front & Rear speakers.
All Tata Tiago Nrg variants come with Speed Dependent Volume Control.Phone Book Access & Audio Streaming,Call Rejected with SMS Feature,Image and Video Playback,Bluetooth Connectivity with,Incoming SMS Notifications & Read-outs,Phonebook Access & Audio Streaming,Call Reject with SMS as additional features.