BMW X1 Review

BMW X1 Pros
Solid build & top-notch quality, inside out. Looks smart too
Modern and well-appointed interior feels good
Refined and competent diesel engine mated to a smooth, responsive 7-speed dual-clutch transmission
Excellent high-speed stability coupled with sorted handling and a precise steering. Mature ride quality at speed
Accommodating 476-litre boot and multiple storage spaces in the cabin
Loaded with features such as adaptive headlamps, electric front seats with extendable seat bases and massage function, 12-speaker Harman Kardon sound system, sliding & reclining rear seats, handsfree tailgate, panoramic sunroof, driving modes, etc.
5-star NCAP rating, top-notch safety kit and some ADAS features
BMW's relatively strong reliability record along with decent after-sales service and maintenance packages

BMW X1 Cons
Expensive! On-road price ranges between 55 - 63 lakhs
18-inch wheels give the ride a firm edge on bad roads at low speeds. It's totally liveable though
The 3-cylinder 134 BHP petrol engine is a misfit in this segment
Diesel motor offers just 148 BHP, which is even lesser than the older car. At this price, 190 - 200 BHP is a must! Furthermore, Diesel is available just in the M
Sport variant (no AWD)
No physical buttons for the climate control and idling start / stop systems is a useability failure
Aggressively tuned idling start / stop system. Even if you slow down and stop at a traffic junction for a second, the engine switches off
Back seat is more suitable for 2 healthy adults and a child. Not 3 healthy adults
Missing features such as ventilated seats, head-up display, full-size spare tyre (has a space saver tyre), 360-degree camera, rear sunshade etc.

Introduction
SUVs and crossovers contribute massively to the number of cars sold in India. It doesn't matter which segment you are competing in, if you do not have competent SUVs in your product portfolio, you won't be seeing high sales figures. The luxury segment is no different. Audi, Jaguar Land Rover, Lexus, Mercedes-Benz, Volvo, etc. all have a healthy range of SUVs on offer. BMW is one of the strongest players in the luxury segment and obviously, it has a strong range of SUVs in its model line-up.
The X1 has been one of the best-selling SUVs from the German luxury carmaker in India. It has always been a fairly compact car with good handling and sufficient power. Being the smallest SUV in BMW's portfolio, it is also more accessible in terms of price. The third-gen car went on sale in the country in January 2023. It is locally assembled at BMW's Chennai facility.
The X1 is available in petrol and diesel versions. While the former is available in the xLine and M Sport variants, the latter comes in the M Sport variant only. The petrol version (sDrive 18i xLine) is powered by a 1,499cc, 3-cylinder unit which produces 134 BHP and 230 Nm. The diesel version (sDrive 18d M Sport) is powered by a 1,995cc, 4-cylinder motor which produces 148 BHP and 360 Nm. Both engines are mated to a 7-speed dual-clutch AT. Unlike its predecessors, however, the third-gen X1 comes with front-wheel drive.

BMW X1 Price & Brochure
When the X1 was launched, the petrol (xLine) and diesel (M Sport) versions were priced at Rs. 45.90 lakh and Rs. 47.90 lakh (ex-showroom) respectively. As of October 2023, the diesel version prices have been
hiked to Rs. 51.60 lakh
ex-showroom). The petrol
M Sport was introduced in May 2023
and is priced at Rs. 48.90 lakh (ex-showroom).
The official brochure of the BMW X1 can be downloaded here.
BMW X1 Petrol.pdf and BMW X1 Diesel.pdf

Exterior
Design & Styling
The third-gen X1 uses the same design language as other BMWs. The body has multiple sharp cuts and creases that give the car an aggressive look.
At the front, the X1 gets new adaptive LED headlamps with high beam assistant, a large, almost square chrome kidney radiator grille and a bumper with multiple creases, an air dam with a honeycomb mesh grille and air curtains. On the sides, there are flap-type door handles, almost square wheel arches, 18-inch alloy wheels, sharp creases on the body and flat roof rails. At the rear, there is a slim windshield, 3D L-shaped LED tail-lamps and a bumper with a thick glossy black insert. The car comes with a panoramic sunroof and a subtle sharkfin antenna.
The X1 is offered in 6 colour options. These include Alpine White, Black Sapphire, Phytonic Blue, M Portimao Blue (our test car), Storm Bay and Space Silver.
In terms of size, the X1 measures 4,500 mm in length, 1,845 mm in width and 1,630 mm in height with a wheelbase of 2,692 mm. While it is not a very large SUV, it still has a good road presence.

Build Quality, Fit & Finish
The X1 is built on BMW's UKL2 platform, which is shared with the 2-Series and Mini Countryman. As expected of a BMW, this SUV feels solidly built. The doors have good heft and shut very solidly. There’s very little flex in the body panels & doors. The body panel gaps are uniform and the overall fit & finish levels are excellent.

Wheels & Tyres
The X1 comes with 18-inch alloy wheels with 225/55 section tyres. The xLine variant gets star-spoke style 865 rims, while the M Sport comes with double-spoke style 838 M bicolour wheels. The wheel and tyre combo fills up the wheel arches well and looks proportionate to the metal on top. The spare tyre is a T135/80 unit on a 17-inch steel space-saver rim.

Ground Clearance
BMW hasn’t specified the ground clearance of the X1. However, it appears to be more than adequate for Indian conditions. Our test car had no issues tackling speed breakers and even some mild off-roading.

Standard & Extended Warranty
The X1 comes with a two-year standard warranty. You can also purchase an extended warranty of up to 5 years and we strongly suggest taking it.

Maintenance
BMW Service Inclusive and Service Inclusive Plus packages can be purchased for all BMW cars. These service packages cover Condition Based Service (CBS) and maintenance work. They begin from 3 years / 40,000 km and can be extended up to 10 years / 2,00,000 km, starting at a price of Rs. 1.31 per km for the BMW X1.

Safety
The X1 comes with safety features such as Driver Assistance Systems with Lane Departure Warning, Dynamic Cruise Control with Braking Function, Automatic Emergency Braking and Pedestrian Protection. Other standard safety features are six airbags, ABS with Brake Assist, Dynamic Stability Control including Dynamic Traction Control, Cornering Brake Control, electric parking brake with auto hold, side impact protection, electronic vehicle immobilizer and crash sensors, Tyre Pressure Monitoring System and ISOFIX child seat anchors.
The third-gen BMW X1 has scored a
5-star safety rating in Euro NCAP
crash tests.

Interior
Cabin Design & Quality
Step inside the cabin and you immediately notice the unconventional dashboard. It features one A/C vent on the right, one in the centre and 2 on the left. The design looks modern and contemporary. The dashboard is black and brown with contrast stitching and silver, brushed aluminium, pearl chrome and glossy black inserts. There’s a 10.25-inch fully digital instrument cluster that stands out like a tablet and extends into a 10.7-inch touchscreen head-unit. BMW calls it the "BMW Curved Display". The roof liner is black.
Soft-touch materials have been used at various places and the interiors are solidly put together. There aren't any rough edges anywhere in the cabin. The part quality is top-notch as well. Overall, the cabin is very likeable and looks from a segment above.

Space & Comfort
Ingress & egress are easy and you can just walk into the car without difficulty. The X1 is not very small in terms of dimensions, but its cabin width is very Seltos / Creta-like. This is not a big, wide 50-60 lakh SUV cabin. Also, due to the shape of the rear seat, a tall and wide transmission tunnel and the centre console taking up space, only 4 people will be comfortable in the cabin. A fifth one would not feel welcome, especially on longer journeys.
The car comes with sports seats that have Sensatec perforated (faux) leather upholstery in Mocha (as in our test car) or Oyster colours. Like other parts, the quality of the upholstery is very good. The seats offer very good support. They have side bolsters, which give good lateral support. Both front seats get height & lumbar adjustment along with adjustable headrests and their seat base can be manually extended. The driver seat gets memory functions as well. What is sad is that these seats are not ventilated - which is a big miss in a country like India.
The seatbelts are adjustable and leather has been used on the doorpads and centre console where the occupants of the front seats would rest their arms. This adds to the comfort.

Driving Position & Ergonomics
As mentioned earlier, the X1 comes with electrically adjustable front seats. The steering is manually adjustable for height and reach, which allows you to find a comfortable position with ease. You can sit high which will give you a clear view of the road ahead. You can also see the bonnet (many drivers like that). While the front and side visibility for the driver is fine, the rear visibility is not as good due to the thick D-pillars and a fairly small windshield. Even so, the all-round visibility is good with no blind spots.
In the driver's seat, it is pretty easy to get acquainted with all the controls. The three-spoke, leather-wrapped M steering wheel is perfectly sized and fantastic to hold. The horn pad, though, is not easy to reach with your thumbs. The steering-mounted buttons are clearly marked and the light / wiper stalk and gear lever are within easy access. A useable dead pedal has been provided as well. We’ll say that the ergonomics are sorted in this car.
On the downside, they should have had more physical buttons for crucial features. For instance, the climate control system can be controlled only via the touchscreen, which is not cool. The climate control should always have physical knobs. The same goes for the idling start/stop system. It can be disabled only through the touchscreen, which sucks. It’s something guys like us use every time.

Cabin Storage
There are many storage spaces in the cabin. You get a glovebox with a rubber base and doorpads that can hold a 1L bottle along with some other items. The centre console houses two cupholders, a wireless smartphone charging pad and two USB Type C ports along with a 12V power outlet. Under the centre armrest, there is a large storage space with a rubber base, while the armrest can be opened to reveal a shallow storage compartment.

Air-Conditioning
The X1 comes with a dual-zone climate control unit. The A/C functioned very well in the October heat to keep us cool. However, as mentioned earlier, we would have liked physical buttons for the climate control system.

Features
Unique & Noteworthy Features
The X1 comes loaded with features. These include keyless entry & go, a fully digitalised cockpit, drive modes, reversing and parking assistant, panoramic sunroof, awareness assistant, USB Type C ports, dual-zone climate control, front seats with massage function, sliding rear seats, three-point seatbelts for all occupants, ambient lighting, wireless phone charging, an NFC interface, rear A/C vents, handsfree tailgate and more. The X1 also comes with wireless smartphone connectivity and inbuilt navigation with real-time information. Further, it gets the latest BMW iDrive with Operating System 8. Occupants can operate numerous car functions simply by speaking to their BMW Intelligent Personal Assistant. Wireless smartphone integration provides access to numerous functions and apps. Remote software upgrades are available regularly.
Coming to connected features, the BMW ConnectedDrive technology includes BMW ID, MyBMW App with Remote Services, Digital Key Plus and Intelligent Emergency Call Teleservices among others. The My BMW app functions remotely allowing the owner to keep an eye on the current vehicle status at all times. Through BMW Digital Key Plus with Comfort Access, owners can use their smartphones and smartwatches as vehicle keys, in addition to the NFC cards provided. It enables customers to automatically open, close and start the vehicle. Owners can share the digital key with up to 5 users.
Sadly, some features we expect to find in a car of this class have been missed. These include ventilated seats, a head-up display, 360-degree camera, and rear sunshades.

Audio System & Sound Quality
BMW offers a 10.7-inch touchscreen infotainment head-unit with the latest iDrive. The user interface is simple and easy to get used to and the display is crisp and clear. It's extremely smooth and seamless in operation. It’s paired with a Harman Kardon sound system with 12 speakers and a digital amplifier.
In terms of audio quality, it's very impressive. At any volume, the audio quality is commendable with great clarity and no vibrations or distortion.

Rear Passengers
Rear Seat Comfort & Space
The rear bench is placed at a fair height. You do not need to sit down in it. The seat is comfortable and the cushioning is on point - neither too hard nor too soft.  The seat is designed to accommodate three adults and comes with 3-point seatbelts and adjustable headrests for all 3 passengers. However, the hard backrest (due to the centre armrest) isn’t something one would look forward to experiencing. There is also a wide and prominent floor hump and the centre console takes up some legroom. Therefore, the bench is more suitable for 2 adults and 1 child rather than 3 adults.
Rear legroom is at acceptable levels compared to earlier generations. Besides, the rear seats get fore & aft adjustment of up to 130 mm. This allows even two 6-footers to sit comfortably one behind the other. There is enough knee room and headroom available. The backrest is also adjustable and can be set at a comfortable angle as per the occupants' preference. The under-thigh support is sufficient as well. Rear passengers get a centre armrest with two cupholders, seatback nets, A/C vents, and USB charging ports (Type-C).

Boot Space
The third-gen X1 has a boot space of 476 litres. Folding the backrest of the rear seat down gives the car a luggage capacity of 1,527 litres. The boot is equipped with 2 cubby holes on the side, a light, a 12V power outlet and a parcel shelf. The boot has a hands-free tailgate with electric closing.

Driving the BMW X1 2.0L Diesel AT
The X1 is available with 2 engine options - a 134 BHP, 1.5L, 3-cylinder turbo-petrol and a 148 BHP, 2.0L, 4-cylinder turbo-diesel. The turbo-petrol is a disappointment as at this price point, one would expect a more refined and powerful motor. On paper, the turbo-diesel too looks disappointing as it produces just 148 BHP and 360 Nm, which is considerably lower than the second-gen car (188 BHP & 400 Nm). Both engines come mated to a 7-speed dual-clutch transmission. We got to drive the diesel (sDrive 18d M Sport).
1,995 cc TwinPower turbo-diesel unit makes 148 BHP & 360 Nm.
With your foot on the brake, press the engine start / stop button to fire up the engine. Immediately you'll notice the impressive refinement of the car. There is barely any noise or vibration felt upon starting or at idle.
Release the brakes and the X1 starts crawling forward at 6 km/h in silence. Very frankly we don’t know how BMW tunes its engine and gearboxes! The car is peppy enough at city and medium speeds. The engine is responsive at low speeds and there is enough power and torque available to help you keep up with city traffic. Even when you need to close a gap to the car in front, the engine has enough poke. You’ll never feel a lack of power. Overall drivability is very good with linear power delivery. The diesel's refinement is quite impressive. Along with the good drivability, it makes for a very smooth and comfortable experience in urban conditions.
On the open road, the X1 is an adequate performer. While we wouldn't call it exciting, it's more than enough for Indian roads and most owners' needs. BMW claims that the diesel can touch 100 km/h from a standstill in 8.9 seconds. Despite the rather low power and torque figures, we never felt the car to be underpowered. The mid-range is strong and the throttle response is good which makes overtaking easy. The engine revs till ~4,500 rpm before shifting up. In terms of cruisability, in 7th gear, the engine is revving at ~1,500 rpm and ~1,800 rpm while doing 100 km/h and 120 km/h respectively. This makes the X1 an effortless mile-muncher.
The 7-speed Steptronic dual-clutch AT does a very good job in the X1. With a light foot, you can see upshifts happening at ~1,750 rpm. It is very smooth while shifting up or down and also nice and quick in its response time. It never seems confused and is almost always in the correct gear that one would need. Paddle shifters have been provided for those who want to shift manually. The party piece here is the Sport Boost mode. This is engaged by keeping the downshift paddle pulled for a few seconds. The engine gives you around 10 seconds of extra power to overtake traffic quickly - very handy while driving on single-lane highways.
Apart from the default Personal mode, there are 2 drive modes: Efficient and Sport. These 2 modes alter the nature of the engine.
The Personal mode is in the middle of the Efficient and Sport modes. It works well in town and on the highway and offers a good balance between efficiency and performance.
In Efficient mode, the throttle response is lazier and the gearbox shifts up earlier to maximise fuel efficiency. This mode provides the smoothest ride. It is good enough to be used in the city, but on the highway, it makes the car feel underpowered.
In Sport mode, the throttle response is sharpened and gearshifts are snappier. The transmission holds a gear for a longer time. This mode is helpful while pulling off quick overtaking manoeuvres on the highway. However, using this mode in the city is not advisable as power delivery can get spiky.

Noise, Vibration & Harshness (NVH)
As mentioned earlier the 2.0L diesel is extremely refined. There is barely any noise or vibration experienced as the engine cranks or when idling. Even while driving around, the engine is hardly heard in the cabin. It's only when you rev past ~2,500 rpm that there is some engine noise heard in the cabin. Go past ~3,500 rpm and the noise gets louder, but it's never disturbing for the car's occupants.
Wind noise and road noise are well controlled for the most part. Above 115 km/h, however, some wind noise does filter into the cabin.

Mileage & Fuel Economy
The X1 has an ARAI-certified fuel efficiency of 16.35 km/l and 20.37 km/l for the petrol and diesel versions respectively. The car has an idling start-stop system which aids fuel efficiency. This function is tuned too aggressively. You stop for just a second at a junction and the engine is switched off. It can get very annoying. As mentioned earlier, there is no physical button to turn it off. One needs to dive deep into the infotainment system to deactivate it. What's even more annoying is that it comes on by default when you start the car. There's no way you can turn it off permanently.

Suspension & Ride Comfort
The X1’s suspension is compliant. While we wouldn't term it as plush at slow speeds, it's not uncomfortable. We would call it family-friendly. Even so, no bumps are transmitted hard into the cabin. In typical European car fashion, as the speed increases, the ride gets better. Even larger bumps are tackled with aplomb. The suspension works silently too.

Handling & Dynamics
As expected from a BMW, the X1's straight-line stability is excellent. Occupants won't even know that the car is cruising at triple-digit speeds. It never loses composure over expansion joints at expressway speeds.
The X1, despite shifting to front-wheel drive, handles like a BMW should - i.e. beautifully. On sweeping curves, the car holds its line very well. Push it hard on twisty roads and the car changes direction without drama. There is very little body roll. Our test car came with 225/55 R18 Bridgestone Turanza tyres, which provided enough grip for the power on tap.

Steering
The X1 gets an electric power steering, which is very user-friendly. It's light in the city and most owners will appreciate that. The light steering and automatic transmission make the car very easy to drive in the city. At higher speeds, the steering weighs up well. There's no nervous feeling or twitchiness at all while cruising on the highways.
On twisty roads, the steering feels very accurate. However, there is a lack of feedback from it compared to some other BMWs that we have driven.

Braking
The X1 is equipped with disc brakes at the front and rear. The performance is strong and the car comes to a halt without any drama. Under hard braking too, the car doesn't lose its composure. BMW has equipped the X1 with Cornering Brake Control.

BMW X1 Exterior Images
Despite the relatively smaller dimensions, the large radiator grille gives the X1 good road presence. It is the only element at the front where chrome has been used.
Rear end features multiple cuts and creases. Use of chrome is restricted to the X1 badge.
Viewed from the side, the X1 appears well-balanced. Wheels are proportionately sized to the metal on top.
Build quality and fit & finish are top-class.
The X1 measures 4,500 mm in length, 1,845 mm in width and 1,630 mm in height with a wheelbase of 2,692 mm.
Automatic adaptive LED headlights get high beam assist. They also get cornering function along with welcome and goodbye light staging.
LED DRLs are bright and prominent. They double up as turn-indicators.
Chrome and black kidney grille is not as large as some of the other BMWs, but it still divides opinions about its look. A full black unit would have made it look better.
Front bumper has multiple cuts and creases. It houses a large air dam with a honeycomb mesh grille and a glossy black insert at the top. Fog lamps have not been provided. Notice the air curtains on the sides.
A healthy amount of underbody protection at the front.
Bonnet has a very prominent bulge in the centre.
An "M" badge has been pasted on both sides to denote the M Sport variant.
Sharp crease runs across the doors. Notice the glossy black insert on the running board.
ORVMs get integrated LED turn-indicators and aero-fins.
Flap-type door handles look stylish. We usually don't like these and consider them to be outdated, but BMW’s execution is really good.
Glass area is adequate and the windows have a mild tint on them. Gives the car a nicer look from the outside but more importantly, helps in these times when sun films have been stupidly banned. Roof rails are functional.
M Sport variant gets smart-looking 18-inch double-spoke style 838 M bicolour wheels alloy wheels. They are shod with 225/55 section Bridgestone Turanza tyres.
As expected in a car of this segment, the X1 comes with disc brakes at the rear.
Full cladding in the front and rear wheel wells.
Good underbody protection is provided along the length of the car.
Type of fuel required is clearly marked on the fuel cap. DEF filler cap is located here too.
As is expected in a car of this segment, the X1 gets a panoramic sunroof.
Sharkfin antenna is not as prominent as we usually get to see.
Rear windshield is slim. The roof-mounted spoiler has a glossy black insert and houses the stop lamp.
3D L-shaped LED tail-lamps are split and look cool. Reversing lamp is located near the number plate.
Tailgate has multiple creases. Large "X1" badge is located in the left bottom corner. There is no badge denoting the engine anywhere on the car.
Reversing camera is placed just above the rear number plate.
Rear bumper gets a large glossy black insert with vertically oriented reflectors on the sides. The lower portion gets diffuser-like detailing.
Exhaust pipe is on the left and opens downwards.

BMW X1 Interior Images
Interiors are well-designed and solidly built with high-quality materials. Ergonomics are absolutely perfect with all controls falling easily to hand.
While this is no full-size SUV like say the Fortuner, the view from the driver's seat is commanding.
A-Pillars are not very thick. All-round visibility is good with no blind spots.
Leather-wrapped steering feels fantastic to hold – very sporty and very meaty. It has a prominent horn pad that sticks out which may not be to everyone's liking.
Buttons for the cruise control are placed on the left spoke while those for the infotainment system and telephony are placed on the right.
Paddle shifters have been provided to enable drivers to shift gears manually. Keep the left paddle pulled for a few seconds to activate the "Sport Boost" function for 10 seconds.
Steering is adjustable for height and reach. However, the adjustment has to be done manually.
Switchgear for the lights is located on the left, while the controls for the wipers are located on the right. The X1 is equipped with automatic adaptive headlights and rain-sensing wipers.
Instrument cluster is clear to read. However, we are not fans of this digital console, especially with the rev counter on the right, which climbs anti-clockwise and the speedometer on the left.
The user can choose the content to be displayed. He / she can choose between a digital speedometer, navigation, G meter and compass among others.
One can also choose between three layouts for the instrument cluster according to his / her preference.
When the Sport Boost function is activated, a countdown from 10 to 0 appears on the MID.
MID shows you the specific door that is open. It also warns you if the bonnet or tailgate is not closed.
Slim A/C vents get glossy black surrounds and silver inserts.
Switches for the headlamps, rear foglamp and illumination adjustment are located below.
Doorpads feature leather and silver inserts. They hold a speaker and tweeter each.
Tweeters get stainless steel bezels and illuminated Harman Kardon branding.
Door handles get a pearl chrome finish. Good to see physical buttons for the power windows and ORVMs. They are much nicer to use than the touch-type units that cars are coming with in recent times.
Doorpads can hold a 1-litre bottle and other small items.
Welcome light under the door projects "BMW" on the floor.
Door sills are not very wide. They get "M" branded scuff plates.
Sports seats come draped in perforated Mocha faux leather upholstery. They are firm with excellent bolstering on the sides and offer superb support. They are also wide enough to suit larger-built folks. M Sport variant gets a massage function for the front seats .
Both seats are electrically adjustable and also get a lumbar adjustment. Driver seat gets 2 seat memory positions. The fore and aft travel range is long. Even tall drivers will fit in without complaints.
Seat base can be manually extended as well to provide better under-thigh support for taller drivers.
Passenger seat does not get memory function.
Centre armrest is wide and draped in soft faux leather. Though not adjustable, its placing is spot on.
Aluminium accelerator and brake pedals are well-spaced. They have rubber inserts on the surface. Dead pedal is positioned perfectly and can even accommodate large-sized shoes. Footwells are illuminated.
ORVMs are wide enough to give a good view of happenings at the rear. However, they do not come with blind-spot warnings.
Auto-dimming IRVM is large enough to cover the entire rear windshield.
The rearward view is just average. The rear windshield is fair in size, but the D-pillars are thick. Better to take the assistance of reversing camera and parking sensors.
Sound system has been provided by Harman Kardon and comes with 12 speakers. The centre speaker is mounted on the dashboard.
Centre fascia is tilted towards the driver.
10.7-inch touchscreen head-unit features iDrive Operating System 8, wireless smartphone connectivity and navigation. It is easy to use with a crisp display. Many functions are controlled through this touchscreen. However, we feel some functions such as the climate control and idling start/stop should have had physical buttons. Audio quality is impressive.
One can choose from various modes. While the first three are driving modes, the other three alter the ambience.
Massaging function for the front seats can be controlled through the touchscreen. A TPMS has also been provided.
One can control the idling start/stop, ADAS features and ambient lighting through the touchscreen head-unit.
Touchscreen doubles up as a display for the reversing camera. The X1 also comes with a Parking Assistant and Reversing Assistant that help you park in or reverse out of a tight spot. No 360-degree view here though.
Single A/C vent in the centre has a glossy black surround. Defrost buttons are placed to the left.
Vertical smartphone holder with ambient lighting provides wireless charging and an NFC interface. Two cupholders are located next to it.
Two Type C USB ports are placed on the right, while a 12V power outlet is located on the LHS.
Front portion of the centre armrest houses the engine start / stop button, gear shifter, electronic parking brake, buttons for the reversing camera, drive modes, auto-hold, hazard lights and volume control.
Large, open storage space below the centre console has a rubberised base.
Storage compartment under the centre armrest gets a rubberised base. The door of the bin opens by pressing the button located just ahead of it. It has a left-hand drive orientation.
Two A/C vents are placed on the passenger side which is unconventional.
Glovebox is medium-sized. It gets a rubber base and illumination.
Roof bezel consists of map lights, sunroof controls and an SOS call button.
Bluetooth mic is positioned above the driver on the roofliner. It should have been integrated into the roof lamp console for a cleaner look IMHO.
Both sunvisors get vanity mirrors with covers & lights and ticket holders.
Massive panoramic sunroof lets in a lot of light, making the cabin feel airy.
Rear doorpads get the same theme as the ones in the front. Rear speakers and tweeters are housed on them.
Rear doorpads can hold a 1-litre bottle and other small items.
No scuff plates at the rear.
Rear legroom is at acceptable levels compared to earlier generations of the X1. Under-thigh support is adequate too.
Rear seats get fore & aft adjustment of 130 mm. Helps in liberating more legroom.
Lever for fore & aft adjustment of the rear seats.
Rear seat is more suitable for 2 adults and a child, rather than 3 adults. The seat base and backrest have some contours to hold you in place. Adjustable headrests and 3-point seatbelts have been provided for all occupants along with ISOFIX child seat anchors on both sides.
Middle passenger has his seatbelt mounted on the roof.
Backrests can be individually reclined to suit the users' comfort. This image shows the backrests in the most upright and reclined angles.
Wide centre armrest houses two cupholders.
Front seatbacks have storage nets for rear seat occupants to use.
Rear air-con vents are provided. Two Type C USB ports are located below them along with a space to keep your smartphone.
Tall and wide floor hump means that the middle passenger needs to place his feet on either side of it.
Both rear grab handles have coat hooks and reading lights.
476-litre boot can easily accommodate luggage for a family vacation.
Parcel shelf has a prominent lip to keep things from rolling onto the rear seat.
Storage pocket on the left gets a net.
There's a storage pocket on the right as well. 12V power outlet and boot lamp are located here.
Space saver spare tyre and tools are stored under the boot floor. We like this arrangement as it does not eat into the luggage space.
Backrests are split in a 40:20:40 ratio. One can use this feature to carry a combination of passengers and luggage. Rear passengers can also access the boot from the cabin by folding the middle backrest.
Folding the rear backrests down gives you 1,527 litres of cargo capacity.
Warning triangle is stowed in the tailgate cladding.
Tailgate can be closed electrically. You can set the opening height as well.