2025 Hyundai Creta Electric Review

Hyundai Creta Electric Pros
Superbly engineered all-rounder that delivers a satisfying experience
User-friendly interiors with sufficient space & good quality parts. Great interior upgrades over the Petrol / Diesel Creta
168 BHP motor is enjoyable to drive. 0-100 km/h in 7.9 seconds!
Unladen ground clearance of 200 mm is perfect for Indian roads
Sorted road manners & handling
Zero emissions, cheap “fuel” costs, no gears, light controls make it an ideal city car
Safety package includes ADAS Level 2, hill descent control, 6 airbags, ESP, all-wheel disc brakes, auto-hold, TPMS etc.
Impressive kit (ventilated & electrically adjustable front seats, boss mode, reclining rear seats, memory function for driver seat, digital key, fully digital instruments, 360-degree camera, panoramic sunroof, rear window sunshades, adjustable regen, Bose sound system, V2L charging, in-car payment for charging & loads more)
Hyundai's wide dealer & service network

Hyundai Creta Electric Cons
Smaller battery packs and shorter range compared to rivals such as the Tata Curvv & Mahindra BE 6
EV-specific tyres limit the car's handling and braking capabilities
Firmer suspension isn't as compliant as the regular Creta's
Back seat's width makes it better for 2 adults and a kid, rather than 3 adults
A few misses (e.g. wireless Android Auto & Apple Carplay, illuminated window buttons!!!)
433-litre boot is lesser than the Tata Curvv (500 litres)
The usual EV challenges (charging infrastructure, highway range anxiety etc.)
Although not bad, rear seat under-thigh support is lesser than the ICE Creta, and you do sit in a bit of a knees-up position. Taller people will have an issue with under-thigh support

Introduction
The Hyundai Creta has been the default choice for many in the mid-size SUV segment for a long long time. Hyundai claims that since its launch in 2015, more than 1.1 million units of the Creta have been put on Indian roads. It is the company's best-selling model, regularly clocking more than 15,000 units per month.
Over the past few years, with the EV market gaining steam in India, some carmakers like Tata and Mahindra have been introducing electric versions of their existing models which has allowed them to become leaders in their respective segments. MG has some pretty good electric offerings in its portfolio as well. While Hyundai has brought some of its global EVs to India (Kona and Ioniq 5), they are not exactly mass-market models which limits their audience. With Creta Electric, which is the company's first localised EV, Hyundai will be hoping to increase its share in the country's EV market.
The Creta Electric is powered by an interior permanent magnet synchronous motor and comes with a liquid-cooled lithium-ion battery pack. There are two variants of the car. The first one has a 42 kWh battery pack with 133 BHP on tap and an ARAI-certified range of 390 km. The second variant (Long range) gets a 51.4 kWh battery pack with an output of 169 BHP and 255 Nm and an ARAI-certified range of 473 km.
Hyundai is selling the Creta in five metallic colours (Atlas White, Abyss Black, Fiery Red, Starry Night, and Ocean Blue), three matte colours (Ocean Blue, Titan Grey, and Robust Emerald), and two dual-tone metallic colours (Ocean Blue with Abyss Black roof and Atlas White with Abyss Black roof).
Like the regular Creta, the Electric is loaded with features. The car gets rain-sensing wipers, dual-zone climate control, ventilated 8-way electrically adjustable front seats with memory function for the driver seat, reclining rear seats, boss mode for the front passenger seat, panoramic sunroof, 70+ Hyundai Bluelink connected car features, In-car payment (for charging the car), 360-degree camera, Bose sound system and more. Then, there is the Digital Key with NFC technology. With a touch of a smartphone or smartwatch against the door handle, customers can lock or unlock the car. They can place the smartphone/smartwatch on the front wireless charger pad to start the vehicle. The technology also allows the customer to drive and share the Digital Key with up to 3 different users or up to 7 linked devices at a time.
Then there is the Vehicle-to-Load mobile power supply function, which transforms the car into a power bank.
On the safety front, the car is equipped with ADAS Level 2, which includes 19 features, 52 standard safety features, and 75 advanced safety features.
The Creta Electric comes with a 3-year / unlimited km warranty, 8-year / 1,60,000 km battery warranty, 3-year warranty for the wall box charger and 3-year roadside assistance as standard. Additionally, one can purchase an extended warranty of up to 7 years and Shield of Trust running repair and maintenance packages of up to 5 years.

Hyundai Creta Electric Price & Brochure
Hyundai will launch the Creta Electric on January 17, 2025, at the Auto Expo in Delhi.
You can view the Hyundai Creta Electric spec sheet here.

2025 Hyundai Creta Electric Exterior Review
While there are no major changes to the Creta's styling, the Electric version does get some cosmetic updates to distinguish it from the regular car. At the front, there is a new grille and bumper.
At the rear, you get a roof spoiler, a restyled bumper with horizontally oriented reflectors and a horizontal black insert at the base of the tailgate.
On the sides, the car gets new alloy wheels and a revised silver insert on the running board. The silver applique on the side of the roof and C-pillar is gone and the door handles have been tweaked as well.
While the LED DRLs with sequential turn-indicators and connecting LED strip have been carried over from the old car, the radiator grille has been replaced by a pixelated glossy black plastic panel.
Front camera sticks out and could have been better integrated.
The upper portion of the dual-tone front bumper gets a glossy black panel with pixelated detailing. The charging port is located in the middle. The lower portion is black with pixelated detailing. Silver skid plate is located below.
LED headlamps get reworked housings. They come with the high beam assist function.
Charging port gets a multicolour surround light and a state of charge (SOC) indicator.
Low on the bumper is the front ADAS sensor. On either side of it are aero flaps that open automatically when additional cooling is required.
A healthy amount of underbody protection. Ground clearance is rated at 200 mm.
Request sensor on the body-coloured driver door handle has been tweaked. There is no request sensor or keyhole on the front passenger side door.
17-inch aero alloy wheels are shod with 215/60 section low rolling resistance (LRR) Good Year Triplemax 2 tyres. Tyre pressure is 36 PSI all-round.
Silver insert on the running board is thinner than the one on the regular Creta.
Battery pack is located below the floor of the car. Good to see that all cables are neatly concealed.
Aerodynamic spoiler is located at the top of the tailgate.
electric" lettering is pasted on the right side of the tailgate. Two slim reflectors are placed on either side of the bumper with black plastic running between them on the tailgate. Like the front, the rear bumper gets a glossy black plastic panel with pixelated detailing. Two LED reversing lamps are housed on this panel.

2025 Hyundai Creta Electric Interior Review
Interior is finished in a Granite Gray with a Dark Navy dual-tone theme. While the dashboard design is based on the regular Creta, there are changes to the centre fascia and the steering wheel is new.
Blue ambient lighting illuminates the slot on the passenger side of the dashboard.
Leather-wrapped EV-specific three-spoke steering wheel with silver inserts and Morse code detailing is nice to hold.
Buttons are a mixture of black and silver and feel nice to operate. Buttons for the infotainment system, telephony and voice commands are placed on the right spoke. Buttons on the left spoke now have the ADAS and MID controls.
Level of regeneration can be adjusted using paddles on the steering wheel. While pulling the one on the left increases the regeneration level, the one on the right can be used to decrease it.
In typical Hyundai fashion, wiper controls are placed on the left and light controls on the right. Turnable portions of the stalks are finished in glossy black. The Creta Electric gets rain-sensing wipers and automatic headlamps.
Column-mounted shift-by-wire gear selector needs you to twist the silver bit to engage D or R. P is engaged by pressing a button on the side of the stalk.
Instrument cluster is fully digital with the speed displayed on the left, range on the right and an MID in the middle. The display is clear and easy to read.
Blue accent below the instrument cluster and the touchscreen is a nice touch.
MID shows the usual information, such as trip meter, distance to empty, etc. You can also check vehicle-related information like TPMS or even have the turn-by-turn navigation on display. You can also view the flow of energy while driving the car.
While the MID shows the ADAS Level 2 features, the left and right dials double up as a display for the blind spot monitor. The left dial also warns you if the charging port is open.
Different colour animations indicate the transitions between the drive modes.
Battery status is displayed in the left bottom corner, while the regen level is indicated in the right bottom corner. Choosing the highest regen level (4) activates the one-pedal driving feature. Hyundai calls it i-Pedal. It is indicated above the range display.
Start-stop button gets a blue border. Next to it, you have the switches for the hill descent control, traction control and parking sensors along with the headlamp leveller.
Door pads are identical in design to the regular Creta. However, the driver seat gets a memory function. Switches for the same are located on the door pad.
Door sills get black scuff plates with thin aluminium inserts.
Front seats are crafted from sustainable materials including recycled plastic bottles for fabric and corn extract for the artificial leather upholstery. Both seats get 8-way electric adjustment. They are ventilated as well.
A closer look at the perforated artificial leather upholstery. Front seats get blue Creta electric branding and blue piping.
Passenger seat can be moved forward and its backrest can be adjusted by the rear passenger using these buttons. Hyundai calls this "passenger walk-in device".
Driver footwell is identical to the regular Creta. No aluminium pedals here; just plain rubber pedals.
Creta electric branded floor mats get white stripes and pixelated detailing with a blue border.
Electrochromic IRVM is identical to the regular car. However, the detailing on the buttons has been changed.
Touchscreen head-unit has a crisp display and is very slick to operate. Visibility is good even under direct sunlight. There are different settings for the driver assistance system and you can choose to turn off the ones that you don't want to use. You have different vehicle-related settings as well for the lights, door, climate control and even the cluster. You also get voice commands and in-built music streaming application JioSaavn (with 1-year complimentary subscription). You also have 70+ Bluelink Connected car features with 16 free OTA (over-the-air) updates.
Music is played through an 8-speaker Bose sound system. A quiet mode has been provided which delivers sound to the front seats only. The volume is limited too.
Dual-zone climate control functions are displayed on the touchscreen.
EV-related information is displayed here.
You can alter various charging-related settings through the touchscreen.
Energy information related to battery status, energy consumption and economy history is displayed on the touchscreen.
The Vehicle-to-Load settings can be altered and charging can be scheduled according to the time of next departure.
The system also gets an In-car Payment feature through which you can pay for charging your EV.
Switches for most of the dual-zone climate control and touchscreen head-unit functions are now touch type and not physical.
Type-A and Type-C USB ports and a 12V power outlet are located below the climate control panel. The Type-C USB port (on the left) can only be used for charging, while the Type-A port (on the right) can be used to connect your smartphone to the infotainment system (e.g. Android Auto). A wireless smartphone charger is placed below.
Large storage space at the base of the centre fascia gets blue ambient lighting and a rubber base.
Centre armrest has been redesigned. The rotary selector for the drive mode is placed right at the front with controls for the electric parking brake, auto hold and 360-degree view system behind. Light blue insert runs around the black console. Two cupholders are to the left, while switches for the ventilated seats are further behind. Shorter drivers will find the leather-wrapped centre armrest to be placed too far behind to use.
Shallow storage area just ahead of the centre armrest to keep loose items such as coins.
Storage box under the centre armrest now gets a cooling vent.
Like the front, rear door sills get black scuff plates with thin aluminium inserts.
Design of the rear seat is identical to the regular Creta. However, due to the placement of the batteries, the floor of the car has been raised which means the rear seat passengers sit in a knees-up position. Even so, unless you are on the taller side, the under-thigh support is acceptable.
Like the regular Creta, the rear seats can be reclined individually. Here's the difference in the angles between the reclined and regular positions. The recline-adjustment can give you a comfortable recline angle.
Front seatbacks get foldable tray tables with retractable cupholders for the rear passengers to use.
Power outlet for V2L is placed under the rear seat. 250V, 16A socket is a rare phenomenon even at homes as it is used only for heavy appliances. You can set up a full-fledged office with this.
At 433 litres, the boot space remains the same.
Spare tyre is a full-size unit wrapped around a steel rim.
Frunk has a carrying capacity of 22 litres.

Driving the Hyundai Creta Electric Long range
Bonnet has liquids and electricals on either side of the frunk.
The Creta Electric is powered by an interior permanent magnet synchronous motor. Many components of the PE system have been carried over from the company's global models.
The Long-range variant uses a high-density 51.4 kWh NMC battery pack mounted on the floor of the car. It features a battery monitoring unit carried over from the Ioniq 5. This includes.
Power relay assembly that controls a high voltage power circuit between the HV battery and electric control unit
High voltage fuse that cuts off the power in case of overcurrent and short circuit
Liquid cooling path for battery cooling / heating
Battery module assembly for protection and support structure
The battery pack comes with an IP67 waterproof / dustproof rating. Hyundai claims to have performed a 16 ft. drop test on it. The company also claims to have conducted a water soak test on the car (420 mm depth for 120 seconds). Additionally, the car comes with a battery heater that is claimed to ensure performance in cold temperatures (up to -35 degrees Celsius).
Start the car, shift to ‘D’ mode, take your foot off the brake pedal and the car gets off the line in a smooth manner. It will crawl forward without any accelerator input. The power delivery is linear and predictable. There are no jerks from gearshifts and no sound from the engine sound means it is an extremely refined experience. We preferred to use the Eco mode while driving in the city. It felt more than adequate for driving in the city and keeping up with the traffic. Also with the regen set to its strongest level (4), the car can be driven by just using the accelerator and without using the brakes in bumper-to-bumper traffic. All these factors make the Creta Electric very easy to use in city traffic.
On the open road, the Creta Electric provides instant acceleration when you touch the accelerator. The instant acceleration will see you leaving most ICE cars behind, left in the dust. Hyundai claims that the car will do a 0-100 km/h sprint in 7.9 seconds, which is pretty fast.
The Creta Electric can easily cruise at triple-digit speeds on the highway and when you need to overtake a slower vehicle quickly, just floor the A-pedal and fly past the vehicle. However, the harder you drive, the faster the range drops.
There are 3 driving modes to choose from and unlike some other cars, these aren't gimmicky. They're mapped specifically for different driving styles and also change the steering weight.
Normal Mode: This is the default mode to drive in and works well in the city as well as the highway. It is a good balance of power and economy.
Eco Mode: When you want to extract maximum range, this is the mode to engage. The throttle response is dumbed down which results in a smoother drive. Still, you never feel that the car is lacking power. There’s still enough power on tap to keep up with traffic and even overtake. While we found this mode to be the best for driving in the city, it also delivered acceptable performance on the highway.
Sport Mode: In this mode, the throttle response is the sharpest and the car. It is best to use it on undivided highways when you need to overtake slower vehicles very quickly. On the downside, it feels a little too jerky for day-to-day city driving and also eats up battery faster.

Regenerative Braking
The Creta Electric comes with 4 levels of regenerative braking which can be selected using the paddles behind the steering wheel. The first level is barely noticeable and if you have the car in this mode, you might end up using the brakes a lot. On levels 2 & 3, the braking gets progressively stronger.
On level 4, it is very strong and if you lift off the accelerator, the car will ultimately come to a halt. As mentioned earlier, the car can be driven with the accelerator only on this regen level. Hyundai calls it the i-Pedal function.
Engine-braking lovers will appreciate driving with regen at the maximum level. You can also turn off the regenerative brake if you want.

Noise, Vibration & Harshness (NVH)
As is the case with EVs, the Creta Electric is also super quiet. There’s no engine or gearbox to make any noise. There is no noise or vibration felt on start up or shut down.
The overall driving experience is silent. At low speeds, the car’s pedestrian warning system music (or virtual engine sound system as Hyundai calls it) is heard on the outside. It is not loud and cannot be heard inside the cabin. Tyre noise does creep into the cabin at highway speeds, but the wind noise is kept well in check.
Insulation has been provided under the bonnet.

Range
The Creta Electric Long range has an ARAI-certified range of 473 km. On the test drive, I covered ~170 km and used up 47% of the battery. However, my driving consisted of some aggressive acceleration, fast driving, hard braking and long idling periods. At the end of the drive, I had an indicated 171 km of range left. I am sure that with better driving, one can manage at least 375 km in real-world driving conditions. We will wait for ownership reviews to get a proper picture of the range though.
Given the rising demand for EVs, there are plenty of charging stations popping up everywhere, which ought to take care of range anxiety as well. There are many apps and websites that list out all the charging stations near you. Hyundai itself is setting up charging stations all over the country. At the end of the day though, remember the golden rule = EVs are best charged where they are parked (either at your office or home).

Charging
Hyundai provides a complimentary 11 kW AC wall box charger which can charge the battery from 10% to 100% in 4 hours and 50 minutes. If you’re travelling and need a quick refill, a 50 kW DC fast charger can juice up the battery from 10% to 80% in 58 minutes.

Suspension & Ride Comfort
The Creta Electric gets a MacPherson strut suspension at the front and a coupled torsion beam axle at the rear. The car gets 17-inch alloy wheels shod with 215/60 section low rolling resistance tyres.
While the suspension setup is stiffer than the regular Creta, it is liveable. While you will be aware of the road surface you are travelling on, the low-speed ride is acceptable and the car absorbs small to medium-sized bumps fairly well. Large craters do make their presence felt inside the cabin though. The recommended tyre pressure is a rather high 36 PSI. Dropping the pressure to 32 PSI might help improve the ride.

Handling & Dynamics
In a straight line, the Creta Electric feels stable, at least till 120 km/h. In the corners, the body roll is well-controlled. At legal speeds, the car felt stable while tackling corners with the 215 mm tyres providing good grip. However, at higher speeds, the Good Year Triplemax 2 tyres do not inspire much confidence.

Steering
The electric power steering is a nice unit and easy to operate as well. It is light at city speeds which makes it very user-friendly. As the speed climbs, the EPS weighs up reasonably well. On the highway, the steering feels stable and has no nervousness. That said, we'd have liked a bit more consistent feedback as it provides that additional confidence while entering into a corner.

Braking
The Hyundai Creta Electric has discs at the front and rear. All in all, the car has good stopping power. In our test drive, the car stopped without any drama when the brakes were slammed. However, we feel that grippier tyres can improve the car's stopping performance.