2024 Hyundai Creta Facelift Review

Introduction
The Hyundai Creta has been the default choice for many in the mid-size SUV segment for a long long time. Since 2015, it has racked up almost 9.5 lakh unit sales for Hyundai. In fact, 60% of Hyundai's sales are from SUVs and the Creta accounts for 44% of that. Safe to say that Creta has single-handedly led the way in the mid-size crossover segment. So much so that Hyundai's sister brand Kia replicated the same formula by bringing in the Seltos, resulting in the success of both brands. When Hyundai launched the 2nd generation Creta in 2020, it had a lot of polarizing opinions in terms of design but still sold like hotcakes. It has been selling 10-14,000 copies every month consistently right until this facelift launch which goes to show how accomplished it was.
A facelifted version of the Creta was already out internationally in 2021 which Hyundai skipped launching in India. The company waited till 2024 to give the Creta a lot more than merely a nip and tuck. As a result, what we get now is a car which has significant changes to the exterior as well as interior along with the upgraded turbo-petrol powertrain option after the Kia Carens, Hyundai Verna and Kia Seltos facelift. The Creta facelift is available with three engine options, including a 1.5-litre naturally aspirated petrol engine that makes 113 BHP and 144 Nm, paired with a 6-speed MT or CVT, a 1.5-litre diesel that puts out 114 BHP and 250 Nm, offered with a 6-speed MT or 6-speed AT and a 1.5-litre turbo-petrol that produces 158 BHP and 253 Nm, that is available only with a 7-speed dual-clutch AT.
Hyundai and Kia cars are known to be loaded with features and the facelifted Creta is no different. While there were some feature differences in the pre-facelift versions of the Creta and Seltos, both these cars are evenly matched in 2024. The Creta now gets ADAS Level 2, 6 airbags, all-round disc brakes, dual-zone climate control as well as a 360-degree camera. There are some very small differences now and choosing between the two will be very tough. With so many changes to the car, there's a lot to talk about, so let's get right to it.

Hyundai Creta Price & Brochure
Hyundai has launched the Creta facelift at pricies starting from Rs. 10,99,900 (ex-showroom). There are 7 variants on offer and you can go through the detailed price list here. In comparison with the Seltos, the Creta prices are similar with some feature rejigs. For example, Kia doesn't offer the 1.5L NA petrol engine with CVT in the Seltos GT Line (top variant), whereas the Creta gets a fully loaded SX(O) IVT variant. On the other hand, the 1.5L turbo petrol engine is only available in the top SX(O) trim for the Hyundai, that too only with the 7-speed DCT. What's interesting is Hyundai says the pricing is introductory and the top-end spec SX(O) diesel AT and turbo-petrol DCT top out at Rs. 19.99 lakh (ex-showroom). This is good as many states charge more road tax for cars above Rs. 20 lakh (ex-showroom). The pricing is also competitive compared to the VW Taigun and Skoda Kushaq which don't offer the ADAS.
You can download the Hyundai Creta brochure here - 2024 Hyundai Creta Facelift Brochure.pdf

2024 Hyundai Creta Facelift Exterior Review
The 2024 facelift brings in a new front that clearly differentiates it from the outgoing car. The design is contemporary, unlike the outlandish design of the outgoing car. It’s hard to ignore, but you will notice that the Creta now looks more like the Venue than the Tucson.
As is the case with most cars these days, the Creta also gets connected tail-lamp clusters. There are a lot of horizontal elements at the rear and just like the front, the rear also looks simpler than before.
While the front and rear have gotten a major revamp, the side profile remains intact.
Hyundai claims to have reinforced the body structure with the use of advanced high-strength steel. Hopefully, this translates to a higher safety rating vs the poor 3-star NCAP score of the pre-facelift.
The Creta measures 4,330 mm in length (+30 mm), 1,790 mm in width, and 1,635 mm in height. It has a wheelbase of 2,610 mm.
Quad beam LED headlamps sit at the bottom of the bumper. The top two lights are for low beam while the bottom two are high beam lights. The LED DRL and turn indicator unit sit at the top.
You get sequential turn indicators now. Here’s a look at them in action.
Bonnet has been redesigned to go with the new front end. It has more pronounced straight creases which makes it look muscular.
Parametric radiator grille has a gloss black finish that Hyundai calls "Black Chrome". Note that there's no silver chrome at the front and that makes the design look so much nicer IMO. LED DRLs and a horizontal positioning lamp sit on top. The front skid plate also houses the air dam. New on this Creta are front parking sensors.
Hyundai logo has a brushed silver finish. Front parking camera is below it.
Outside air temperature sensor sits right behind the grille and looks out of place. Should have been better concealed.
Front radar sensor has been placed at the bottom in the middle of the air dam.
Wheel air curtains (vents) direct air to the front wheels.
There is a good deal of underbody protection. This is important for India's unpredictable road conditions.
Body-coloured ORVMs now house cameras which are a part of the 360-degree view system.
17-inch diamond cut alloy wheels have a new design and while it’s a little better than the previous design, it still looks busy. The wheels are shod with 215/60 section tyres.
All-wheel disc brakes are standard across all variants. Front wheels get ventilated disc brakes while the rear wheels get solid discs.
Hyundai has retained the “Lightening arch C-pillar” that’s finished in brushed silver. IMO it looks out of place and should’ve been deleted altogether.
Panoramic sunroof is available on S(O), SX, SX Tech and SX(O) variants. SX variants get voice-enabled operation for the sunroof.
ADAS camera sits at the top of the front windshield, behind the IRVM.
As mentioned earlier, the rear also has gone through a major revamp. Horizontal elements give it a very Range Rover Evoque-like look. Connected tail-lamps are similar to the connected DRLs at the front. Thankfully, Hyundai has given up on the ugly-looking big "CRETA" lettering on the tailgate (reference image) and now you get a classy badge on the left.
Here’s a look at the connected tail-lamps at night.
LED tail-lamps have a simple design and they look good in person.
You get sequential turn-indicators at the rear as well.
New "1.5 Turbo" badge at the bottom right.
The rear skid plate design is similar to the front and it looks nice. Reflectors have been placed at the ends of the bumper.
Sad to see a cheap halogen bulb for the reversing light.
Same goes for the number plate lights. These should’ve been LEDs.
The outgoing car got dual exhaust tips (reference image) in the turbo-petrol variant, which are gone. Now you get a simple exhaust that’s well concealed behind the skid plate. Could there be a Creta N-Line that would get sporty touches? Only time will tell.
Hyundai has introduced this new paint shade called the Robust Emerald Pearl which is a metallic bottle green colour that looks nice under direct sunlight. There are 5 more paint shades available - Abyss Black (our test car), Atlas White, Titan Grey, Fiery Red, and Ranger Khaki. The Atlas White paint shade is available with an Abyss Black roof.

2024 Hyundai Creta Facelift Interior Review
Just like the outside, there are some notable design changes to the interiors as well. While a lot of the bits have been retained from the outgoing Creta, the changes make it feel like a completely new cabin. You get a dual-tone grey interior cabin and you’ll notice that the designers have drawn inspiration from the Ioniq 5.
Leather-wrapped, 4-spoke, flat-bottomed steering is lovely to hold and offers good grip. Just like the outside, you don’t get chrome on the Hyundai logo in the middle. It’s brushed silver.
A welcome addition to the feature list is the telescopic adjustment for the steering wheel. The range is good too, so finding your perfect driving position is much easier.
Buttons now get a piano black finish and are nice to operate. Buttons for the infotainment system, telephony and voice commands are placed on the left spoke. Buttons on the right spoke now have the ADAS controls.
The Creta still doesn’t get rain-sensing wipers that have been available in the Seltos.
Hyundai has moved away from offering fog lamps and hence, the neat integration that we saw in the outgoing car has been done away with (reference image).
Paddle shifters are offered on all automatic variants.
10.25" floating-type digital cluster is similar to the one we've seen in the Alcazar and Tucson. It has a crisp display with some neat customisation options. The display theme can be set to change according to the drive mode selected. You can even choose from 3 terrain modes. Note that this unit is available only in the top SX(O) variant, while the other trims get a digital cluster with an MID.
Centre portion displays the usual information like trip meter, distance to empty, etc. You can also check vehicle-related information like TPMS or even have a compass on display. The right portion gives out a big warning if the Smart Cruise Control conditions are not met.
The Creta is equipped with ADAS Level 2 tech with 19 autonomous features. The system features one front and two rear radar sensors which allow it to have features like forward collision avoidance assist, smart cruise control, blind spot collision avoidance, rear cross-traffic collision avoidance, etc. The top picture displays the forward collision warning, the middle display is shown when adaptive cruise control is engaged and the bottom display is shown when there’s a vehicle approaching in your blind spot.
This white trim is magnetic, and you can have something stuck on it like a fridge magnet. We saw a similar implementation in the Ioniq 5. Note that the white trim around it is hard plastic, but has a nice, rubberised finish that isn’t scratchy.
Below, you have the side A/C vent. The engine start-stop button has been placed below it along with some other controls. You have the switches for the idling start-stop system, traction control and parking sensors along with the headlamp leveller.
Doorpad remains the same, except for the new interior colour theme.
Only the driver window gets auto-up & down and a backlit switch. The Seltos now has all the switches backlit, and all power windows get an auto up & down feature. Hyundai should’ve included that in the Creta.
The seats are draped in two tones of grey upholstery and have contrast copper highlights. Driver's seat is 8-way electrically adjustable but you still don't get lumbar adjustment.
A closer look at the perforated upholstery of the ventilated seats.
No sporty aluminium pedals here like the outgoing Creta turbo-petrol; just plain rubber pedals.
The blind-spot monitoring system works well and can even detect bikers precisely.
The centre console has been carried over but is finished in gloss black. What we found irritating was that it makes a squeaking noise even when your knee presses against it. Even when cornering hard, you will hear this squeaky noise if your knee presses against it.
Here’s the front central speaker on top of the dashboard for the Bose 8 speaker sound system.
Keeping up with the latest trends, the MID and touchscreen head-unit are part of one big unit. The good part is that it looks seamless and feels like a neat integration. It is set at a nice height below the top of the dashboard, which means that it doesn’t hamper the driver’s visibility.
Copper accent below the touchscreen is a nice touch. In fact, this feels very usable as you can place one of your fingers on the base and use the other to operate the touchscreen.
10.25-inch touchscreen has a crisp display and is very slick to operate. Visibility is good even under direct sunlight. There are different settings for the driver assistance system and you can choose to turn off the ones that you don't want to use. You have different vehicle-related settings as well for the lights, door, climate control and even the cluster. You also get voice commands and in-built music streaming application JioSaavn (with 1-year complimentary subscription). You also have 70+ Bluelink Connected car features with 16 free OTA (over-the-air) updates.
The 360-degree camera feature is very usable while parking in tight spaces. The display is clear and there’s no lag.
Below the touchscreen, you have the central A/C vents and the buttons for the touchscreen and A/C controls. Good to see Hyundai opting for physical buttons and knobs instead of making everything touch sensitive. New in the Creta facelift is the dual-zone climate control.
In the slot below the touchscreen, you have a USB Type-C fast charging port, a 12V socket and a regular USB slot for Android Auto and Apple CarPlay connectivity (no wireless connectivity). The wireless charging pad also supports fast charging, but doesn’t have the cooling function that the Kia Seltos wireless charging pad provides.
Very stylish and premium-looking gear lever. The brushed silver and piano black finish go well together.
To engage the manual mode, move the lever to the right (when in D), push forward to upshift and vice versa (just the way we prefer it!).
Glossy black rotary knob with a silver border to switch between the multi-drive modes (Normal, Eco, Sport) and terrain modes (Snow, Mud, Sand).
All the switches including the electronic parking brake and auto hold are finished in gloss black.
Ventilated seats are a boon in the Indian conditions.
Centre armrest has a deep storage compartment underneath. It has a soft lining on the floor. Also, note that the air purifier unit has been removed from the armrest.
A closer look at the new dashboard design. White part is hard plastic but has a rubberised finish, which means that it’s not scratchy. Piano black finish in the middle extends from the side A/C vent and looks very classy.
Slot on the dashboard has a rubberised base to keep things in place. Ideal place to keep your smartphone. Single orange-coloured ambient light illuminates this area at night.
Well-sized glovebox is ventilated.
All three rear passengers get 3-point seatbelts but the middle passenger doesn’t get an adjustable headrest (Kia Seltos provides one).
Vid6639 (6'1") had just about enough room behind his driving position. The backrest is set at a nice angle and can be reclined slightly. Rear passengers also get a sunshade and the armrest is set at a comfortable height.
Rear headroom is decent, even with the panoramic sunroof.
A closer look at the "Creta" branded headrest cushions.
Legroom for Vid6639 (6’1") with the front seat adjusted to his driving position was tight. Even the under-thigh support for a person of his height was just about okay.
Here’s a look at the legroom with the front seat pushed all the way forward.
Rear A/C vents are similar to the outgoing model, but the cubbyhole below it is now bigger. You also have two USB Type-C fast charging ports next to it.
Spring-loaded grab handles have been provided above all passenger doors. The rear ones come with LED lights inside them for the passengers to use.
The Creta gets UV-cut glass, but it’s very mild.
At 433 litres, the Creta's boot space remains the same and is identical to the Seltos. No powered tailgate though as you get in the new Tata Harrier.
You have a 60:40 split for the rear seat backrests.
Spare wheel is a 16-inch steel rim shod with 205/65 section tyre.
Bose subwoofer is placed on the right.
Single halogen boot lamp on the left.
Exposed wires of the seatbelt pre-tensioners for the rear passengers. These should’ve been covered neatly.
Same old Hyundai key that we’ve been seeing for a very long time. The new Tucson key would’ve been nice to see on this Creta.

Driving the Hyundai Creta 1.5L Turbo-Petrol DCT Automatic
The 138 BHP, 1.4L Kappa turbo-petrol engine mated to the 7-speed DCT in the outgoing model was quite powerful and quick. However, the engine had to be upgraded to meet the prevailing emission norms. The result is this Smartstream 1.5L turbo-petrol engine which still belongs to the Kappa family and makes an impressive 158 BHP and 253 Nm and is shared with the new Hyundai Verna and the Kia Seltos facelift. The Hyundai-Kia siblings have the best performance figures in the segment. The 1.5L turbo-petrol engine is only available with a 7-speed DCT automatic and doesn't get the 6-speed iMT that the Seltos gets.
Fire up the engine, and it's refined at idle, silently purring away. Hyundai-Kia powertrains have always set NVH benchmarks, and this car is no different. Shift to D or R, and it crawls away smoothly. Crawling at city speeds isn’t very dramatic and the 1.5L is very well-behaved. With light to medium throttle inputs, you can go about your daily commute quite comfortably. In comparison with the old 1.4L turbo-petrol, the throttle response is smoother and power delivery is more linear. The 7-speed dual-clutch transmission is also seamless moving through the initial gears. However, we did notice that the gearbox got a little confused on a few instances while driving through some traffic. There was also an instance where the gearbox upshifted on its own when coming down a slope without any throttle input. This was strange as we'd have expected it to hold the gear. Start driving and you will appreciate the healthy low-end of this engine. Thanks to the turbocharger and direct injection, you’re never at a shortage of power. Just floor the accelerator if you want to close a gap in traffic or make that quick overtake and the engine and gearbox will do the rest.
Get on some open roads and you can let the Creta stretch its legs. Put your right foot down and before you know it, you’ll hit the highway speed limit of 120 km/h. This is the thing with turbo-petrol engines - flooring the throttle on an empty stretch of road can get addictive. Outright acceleration is great and it feels a little more linear as well compared to say, the 1.5 TSI from the VW-Skoda cars. The turbo delivers a strong mid-range punch that will take care of all the overtaking on the highway. You can cruise along the highway at 100 km/h while the engine spins at a relaxed ~1,800 rpm. Even at 120 km/h, the engine felt relaxed with the rev counter reading ~2,200 rpm. The Creta won't break a sweat cruising at these speeds all day long.
The dual-clutch transmission moves through the gears seamlessly. The kickdown response time is quick enough and the gearbox doesn’t hesitate to drop down 3 or even 4 gears at times to get the engine into the powerband. When you are in the mood for some fun in the ghats, switch to Sport mode and start flipping the paddle shifters for manual control. The ECU matches the revs which is always very satisfying. In comparison to the Kia Seltos, the Creta doesn't sound very happy at high revs. And while the overall NVH package is good, the engine doesn't sound very sporty at high revs. Hyundai has restricted the maximum rpm to 5,900, which is too low, and the engine sounds a bit strained at this rpm. The paddle shifters are responsive, and you can extract some performance from the engine using them for quick overtakes or keeping the engine in the powerband on some twisties. You can engage the gearbox "S" mode by sliding the gear lever to the right (when in D) and this makes the gearbox hold on to the gears a bit longer. You'll appreciate the gearbox "S" mode when pushing the car on some twisty roads. You can also take control of the gears using the paddle shifters and manually keep the engine in the power band. While this adds a bit of control, the gearbox logic in the Taigun and Kushaq 1.5 DSG is better and more in tune with the requirements of the driver.
The Creta gets 3 drive modes - Eco, Normal and Sport.
Eco Mode - Engage the Eco mode when you want to extract maximum fuel efficiency. The throttle response is dulled, but given the power on tap, the mode is quite comfortable to use in the city. In fact, we preferred driving in this mode in the city as the car becomes a lot smoother to drive. The Auto Start-Stop feature is activated automatically when you select the Eco mode. Also, while driving in the city in Eco mode, we noticed that the gearbox wasn't downshifting easily when the accelerator was pressed. It wanted to stay in the higher gears to extract more fuel efficiency.
Normal Mode - This is the default mode and just as the name suggests, it's normal to drive. There is a noticeable difference between Normal and Eco mode. This mode can be used for day-to-day driving which has a mix of city and open roads.
Sport Mode - Engage this mode when you want the car to be more responsive to your inputs. The throttle response is sharper, and the transmission also holds on to gears a bit longer in this mode. The steering is also noticeably heavier, although not as much as enthusiasts would like (more on this later). Sport mode isn't something you'd want to engage in the city as it can get a bit jerky to drive.

Noise, Vibration & Harshness (NVH)
The 1.5-litre unit is very refined overall. At city speeds as well as while cruising at 100 km/h, you can barely hear the engine in the cabin. Even the vibrations are well controlled and cruising with the family on the highway should be comfortable.
Tyre noise does creep into the cabin at highway speeds, but the wind noise is kept well in check. Insulation in the wheel well is also pretty good as you don't hear a lot of the pebbles when driving over some loose gravel.

Mileage & Fuel economy
The Creta comes equipped with an Auto Start-Stop feature that helps fuel efficiency in city driving conditions. The ARAI-certified fuel efficiency for the 1.5-litre turbo-petrol DCT is 18.4 km/l which is a little bit more than that of the Seltos (17.9 km/l). Of course, the real-world FE numbers will be much lower considering that turbo-petrol DCTs are very sensitive to the driving style. We’ll wait for some ownership reviews to get a better picture of real-world fuel efficiency. Fuel tank capacity remains the same at 50 litres and the new Creta is E20 compatible.
1.5L, 4-cylinder turbo-petrol engine makes 158 BHP @ 5,500 rpm and 253 Nm @ 1,500-3,500 rpm.
The 1.5L turbo-petrol engine is offered only with a 7-speed DCT and in single top-end SX(O) variant.

Suspension & Ride Comfort
The Creta gets a McPherson strut suspension at the front and a torsion beam axle at the rear. The setup is similar to the Kia Seltos, but the tuning is different for both cars. Also, the Seltos is offered with 18-inch wheels on the top-spec trim while the Creta has capped the wheel size at 17 inches. The E, EX and S variants get 16-inch wheels with 205/65 section tyres, while the S(O), SX, SX Tech and SX(O) variants get 17-inch wheels with 215/60 section tyres.
Once again, drawing a comparison with the Seltos, the Creta's ride quality is more comfortable. There’s still an underlying stiffness to the ride quality, but overall the setup is very much what you would expect from a Hyundai. At slow speeds, small bumps and potholes are absorbed well. The suspension works silently in absorbing small potholes and there is a cushioning effect. There’s still some amount of body movement felt inside the cabin over bad roads, but it’s manageable. And while the suspension feels comfortable, it doesn't feel as abuse-friendly as something like a Tata Harrier.

Handling & Dynamics
The Hyundai Creta has an inherently mature suspension setup. It behaves nicely at high speed and there is no bounciness or that feeling of floatiness. The car is well-planted with satisfactory high-speed stability. While doing triple-digit speeds on the open road, the Creta displayed good composure. Recovery from expressway undulations is also surprisingly good for a Korean car. Expansion joints of the city flyovers were also absorbed nicely when at speed.
In the area of dynamics, the Creta remains a clean & predictable handler. Through fast corners, the car remains sorted and there are no unnerving surprises. Of course, due to its height, some body roll is present, but it is well-controlled and one can push it through corners confidently. Good to know that
all variants
are equipped with ESP which can be a lifesaver in emergencies. Our test car was shod with JK UX Royale tyres whose grip levels were average. BHPians looking to extract some performance might want to upgrade to richer Michelin or Yokohama rubber.

Steering
The Creta gets a well-tuned EPS. It is light & smooth in the city. As the speedometer climbs, the EPS feels reasonably direct and fast too. The fair all-round visibility, smooth gearboxes (automatics in particular) and light controls make this crossover easy to drive in urban conditions. On the highway, the steering feels stable and has no nervousness. However, there is a bit of extra play in the centre at speed and then you suddenly feel the weight when you start turning. We'd have liked a bit more consistent feedback as it provides that additional confidence while entering into a corner.

Braking
Hyundai has made all-wheel disc brakes standard across all variants. Additionally, you also get brake assist and ABS. While braking from high speeds, the car stops in a straight line without any drama. No complaints in the braking area. The brake pedal felt extremely sharp to the inputs and you have to be very gentle with the application to decelerate smoothly. This takes some time to get used to.

Niggles & Problems
The standard warranty of the Creta is 3 years/unlimited km which can be extended up to 7 years (only for petrol variants). You also get 3 years of roadside assistance. There are also 5 years of running repair and maintenance packages that you can opt for.
While most of the recent feedback about this 1.5-litre turbo-petrol has been positive, the turbo-petrol engine with the dual-clutch transmission is something you should be careful with. Early owners of the Creta & Seltos 1.4 turbo-petrol DCT did face some gearbox overheating issues. While most of them have been resolved, it’s very much advisable to go for the maximum extended warranty. Don’t even think about it twice. It’s better to be safe than sorry.