Hyundai Exter Review

Hyundai Exter Pros
Well-positioned overall package. Priced competitively against rivals
Unique looks with the H-shaped LED DRLs & tail-lamps and crossover styling
Super-refined 4-cylinder engine offers good driveability and satisfactory fuel efficiency. AMT and CNG versions are available too
Hyundai AMTs have superior tuning as compared to the AMTs of Maruti, Tata etc.
Well-tuned suspension absorbs bumps well and delivers acceptable high-speed stability
Precise build & quality (including interiors) are among the segment best
Excellent ergonomics with light and well-placed controls
Spacious interiors with very good legroom and headroom for a car in this segment
Accommodating 391-litre boot is among the largest in the segment
Loaded with features such as a sunroof, keyless entry & go, dashcam with dual camera, auto headlamps, cruise control, paddle shifters, connected car features (BlueLink), wireless charger, rear A/C vents, multi-lingual voice commands, etc
Safety kit includes 6 airbags, 3-point seatbelts for all 5 occupants, ISOFIX child seat mounts, ABS, EBD, ESC, VSM, hill-hold assist, rear parking sensors and camera, TPMS, emergency stop signal, SOS call and more
Hyundai's wide service network & up to 7-years extended warranty

Hyundai Exter Cons
Edgy looks & funky styling may not be to everyone's liking. Cuts and creases are overdone
Despite the unique styling, it’s not really a head-turner. Small size robs the Exter of road presence
1.2L NA petrol’s highway performance is adequate, but not exciting
No turbo-petrol or diesel engine on offer
Not as engaging to drive as the Citroen C3 Turbo. Handling, steering and thin tyres won’t appeal to enthusiasts
Light-coloured interior theme isn’t available. Black interiors may not be to everyone's liking. Hyundai should’ve offered a beige option
Back seat is more suitable for 2 healthy adults and a child. Not 3 healthy adults
Rear seat is placed on the lower side, and its under-thigh support is average (taller folk will find it to be less)
Average sound system is no match for some of the rivals (e.g. Punch & Fronx have better ICE)
Some missing features like foglamps, rear centre armrest, auto-dimming IRVM, 60:40 split rear seat, 6-speaker sound system (Exter has just 4), full-sized spare tyre, etc.

Introduction
Over the past few years, we have seen a new segment emerging between hatchbacks and compact SUVs. This entry-level SUV segment has cars like the Tata Punch, Citroen C3, Maruti Fronx, Nissan Magnite and Renault Kiger. If you look at their sales figures, these cars are doing well for themselves. Now, Hyundai - one of the stronger players in the market, has decided to join the fray with the Exter, which slots below the Venue in the company’s SUV line-up.
The Exter is manufactured at Hyundai's Sriperumbudur facility in Tamil Nadu. The car is available in 5 variants: EX, S, SX, SX(O) and SX(O) Connect. The car is available with a 1.2-litre, 82 BHP, 4-cylinder naturally-aspirated petrol mated to a 5-speed MT or 5-speed AMT. This makes the Exter less powerful than the 87 BHP Tata Punch, which Hyundai claims is its main rival. A petrol + CNG version of this engine with 68 BHP is also available. These engines can also be found in other Hyundai cars like the Grand i10 Nios and Aura.

Hyundai Exter Price & Brochure
As mentioned earlier, the Exter is available in 5 variants with prices ranging from Rs. 5,99,900 – Rs. 9,31,900 (ex-showroom) - click here for the full price list. These prices are more or less at par with the Tata Punch.
Now, it must be remembered that of late, Tata Motors has been running Hyundai close in the race for second place in the sales charts when it comes to passenger vehicles. One of the cars responsible for helping Tata Motors climb up the charts is the Punch. Till now, Hyundai had nothing to counter Tata's entry-level SUV. With the introduction of the Exter at the above-mentioned prices, Hyundai will hope to once again cement its second position on the sales charts.
The official brochure of the Exter can be downloaded here.
Hyundai Exter Brochure.pdf

Exterior
Design & Styling
The Exter uses Hyundai’s “Sensuous Sportiness” design philosophy. Its fairly boxy appearance leaves no doubt in one’s mind about which car the company is trying to take on. The body of the car is edgy and there are multiple sharp creases all over. We feel Hyundai has overdone things here. The car gets a piano black radiator grille, black cladding on the wheel arches and sides, silver skid plates, roof rails rear spoiler, sharkfin antenna and there's subtle use of chrome. Even so, the Exter is not really a head-turner.
Some notable features on the outside are the projector headlamps, H-shaped LED tail-lamps, H-shaped LED DRLs and 15" alloy wheels. On the other hand, LED headlamps and foglamps have not been provided. The car is offered in 6 single-tone and 3 dual-tone colour options. These include Ranger Khaki (our test car), Cosmic Blue, Starry Night (Blue), Fiery Red, Atlas White, Titan Grey, Cosmic Blue with Abyss Black Roof, Ranger Khaki with Abyss Black Roof and Atlas White with Abyss Black Roof.
The Exter measures 3,815 mm in length, 1,710 mm in width, and 1,631 mm in height. It has a wheelbase of 2,450 mm. This makes it shorter in length and width, but taller than the Punch. It also has a longer wheelbase. On the whole, the small size of the Exter means that it lacks road presence.

Build Quality, Fit & Finish
The Exter is built on the K1 platform, which is shared with the Grand i10 Nios and Aura. The car’s bonnet and doors are not heavy, but not feather-light either, while the tailgate has some weight to it. That being said, the Exter does not feel flimsy. There’s very little flex in the body panels & doors and the car feels fairly well-built. Hyundai hasn’t revealed the kerb weight of the car though. The body panel gaps are uniform and the overall fit & finish levels are good.

Wheels & Tyres
The SX dual-tone, SX(O) and SX(O) Connect variants get 15-inch diamond-cut alloy wheels, while the SX single-tone variant gets 15-inch steel rims. The EX, EX(O), S and S(O) variants come with 14-inch steel wheels. Further, the S and S(O) variants get full-wheel covers. All 15-inch wheels come with 175/65 section tyres while the 14-inch rims get 165/70 section rubber. While the wheel and tyre combos fill up the wheel arches well, they look too small compared to the metal on top. The spare tyre is a 165/70 unit on a 14-inch steel wheel.

Ground Clearance
On paper, the Exter has an unladen ground clearance rating of 185 mm, which is 5 mm lesser than the Tata Punch and Maruti Fronx, but sufficient for Indian road conditions. For reference, the Citroen C3 has a GC of 180 mm and the Renault Kiger and Nissan Magnite have a GC of 205 mm.
Standard & Extended Warranty
With the Hyundai Exter, you get a standard warranty of 3 years / unlimited km. You can also get an extended warranty of up to 7 years and we strongly suggest taking it.

Maintenance
Hyundai offers various maintenance packages for up to 5 years. As a part of Hyundai Shield of Trust, the package covers major running parts like brakes, clutch, wipers, belts, etc. There’s also an additional Super package which further reduces the maintenance costs.
Safety
The Exter is equipped with safety features like ESP, VSM, ABS with EBD & brake assist, traction control, 3-point seatbelts for all five occupants, 6 airbags, ISOFIX child seat mounts, rear parking sensors and camera, dashcam with dual camera, auto headlamps, TPMS, emergency stop signal, hill-hold assist and SOS call.
That being said, the car has not been tested by GNCAP or other independent bodies.

Interior
Cabin Design & Quality
Step inside the cabin and you can immediately tell that the dashboard is taken from the Grand i10 Nios. The design looks contemporary with a pleasant layout. The dashboard is black, but the colour of the inserts on it depends upon the body colour of the car. Our Ranger Khaki car had light sage inserts. Piano black has been used around the A/C vents, infotainment head-unit and instrument cluster. Hyundai is not offering a lighter interior colour scheme on the Exter. While the black interior will be easier to maintain, a beige interior certainly makes the cabin feel airier.
You won't find any soft-touch plastics here, but the interiors are well put together. There aren't any rough edge plastics in places that one would usually touch and everything seems to be well-finished in the cabin. The part quality is good (as you would expect in a Hyundai car).

Space & Comfort
Ingress & egress are easy and you can just walk into the car without difficulty. The Exter is a tall car and it also has a long wheelbase, which translates to good space in the cabin. However, it’s not as wide as its rivals. So while 4 people will be comfortable in the cabin, a fifth one would feel cramped.
The seats come with dual-tone leatherette-fabric upholstery with contrast piping & stitching and "Exter" branding. Like other parts, the quality of the upholstery is good. The seats offer a fair deal of support. They have side bolsters, which give good lateral support. However, heavier folk will find these side bolsters digging into their backs. While under-thigh support is good, back support could have been better. The actual backrest area is too thin. The driver seat gets height adjustment and can slide back far enough even for tall occupants to feel comfortable. Additionally, you do not get adjustable seatbelts or a centre armrest or any soft touch material on the armrests on the door pads.

Driving Position & Ergonomics
The Exter allows you to sit tall. Not only do you have a clear view of the road ahead, but you will also be able to see the bonnet (many drivers like that). While the front and side visibility for the driver is fine, the rear visibility is compromised by the thick C-pillars. You will have to use the camera while reversing.
In the driver's seat, you'll get acquainted with all the controls pretty quickly. The three-spoke, leather-wrapped steering is perfectly sized and nice to hold, while the horn pad is easily reachable with your thumbs. The basic important controls - steering mounted buttons, stalks and gear lever are all within easy access. The steering can be adjusted for height and so too can the driver's seat, which means finding your perfect driving position is easy. A useable dead pedal has been provided as well. We’ll say that the ergonomics are sorted in this car.

Cabin Storage
There are a fair number of storage spaces in the cabin. You get a cooled (but not illuminated) glovebox, door pads that can hold a 1L bottle along with some other items, two cupholders and a narrow storage slot in the centre console and a wireless smartphone charging pad at the base of the centre fascia. There is also a long and fairly deep storage spot above the glovebox to keep a smartphone and other small items. There is no storage box on the centre console though. The left front seatback has a pocket for rear passengers to use.

Air-Conditioning
The Exter comes with a climate control unit with physical switches which feel nice to use. Except for the EX and EX(O), all variants get rear air vents. On a hot day in Rajasthan, the A/C functioned very well to keep us cool.

Features
Unique & Noteworthy Features
The Exter comes with a healthy list of features. These include keyless entry & go, auto projector headlamps, LED DRLs, LED tail-lamps, sunroof with English and Hinglish voice commands, dashcam with dual cameras, USB Type C fast charger, cruise control, multi-function steering with tilt adjustment, automatic climate control, three-point seatbelts for all occupants, metal pedals (AMT only), front footwell lighting, wireless phone charging, rear A/C vents and a 12V power outlet at the rear. The AMT comes with paddle shifters as well.
The Exter gets an 8-inch touchscreen head-unit with Apple CarPlay and Android Auto connectivity, inbuilt navigation and OTA map and infotainment updates. The system also gets BlueLink connected car tech with 3 years free subscription with 60+ features for safety & security, remote services, location-based services, vehicle diagnostics and voice assistance. Further, the Exter gets over 90 voice commands that work even without internet connectivity. Embedded voice commands offer faster response time and the capability to compute Hinglish voice commands such as “
Sunroof Kholo”, “Temperature Kam Kardo”, etc. The car also comes with H2C (Home to Car) Alexa in Hindi & English, infotainment with multi-language UI support (10 regional and 2 international languages) and Ambient Sounds of Nature with 7 acoustic profiles.
Features such as rain-sensing wipers, auto-dimming IRVM, LED headlamps, seat lumbar adjustment, rear centre armrest and tweeters are missing.

Audio System & Sound Quality
Hyundai offers an 8-inch touchscreen infotainment head-unit. The user interface is simple and easy to get used to and the display is crisp and clear. It's extremely smooth and seamless in operation. It also gets physical rotary knobs and buttons for various functions. Music is played through 4 speakers.
In terms of audio quality, it's just about adequate. Will give it a 6 / 10 at best, even after setting up the equalizer and all that. The ICE cannot handle bass-heavy songs & the max volume level is quite restricted. Hyundai needs to catch up with some others on this front. One expects a better system in a car costing as much as the Exter.

Rear Passengers
Rear Seat Comfort & Space
Getting in and out of the rear seat isn't difficult. The rear bench is placed slightly lower than we would like. Even so, you do not need to sit down in it. The rear seats are comfortable and the cushioning is on point - neither too hard nor too soft.
The seat is designed to accommodate three adults and comes with 3-point seatbelts for all 3 passengers. However, it comes with just 2 adjustable headrests. There is a wide and prominent floor hump and the centre console takes up some legroom. Therefore, the bench is more suitable for 2 adults and 1 child rather than 3 adults.
The knee room at the rear is excellent and there's a good amount of headroom as well. At 5'10", I had a lot of room to spare while sitting behind my driving position. Even occupants over 6' in height will find the headroom adequate. Overall, the space is more than adequate for most passengers. The backrest is also set at a comfortable angle. The under-thigh support is sufficient for most people, but taller occupants will find it too less for their liking. One of the complaints we have is that Hyundai has not provided a centre armrest. Rear occupants get A/C vents and a 12V power outlet to use.

Boot Space
The Exter has a boot space of 391 litres which is among the biggest of all sub-4 metre crossovers. In fact, the Exter’s boot is larger than that of its larger sibling, the Venue.  Only the Renault Kiger (405 litres) and Kia Sonet (392 litres) have bigger boots. Folding the backrest of the rear seat down gives the car more luggage capacity. A bag hook and a light have been provided as well.

Driving the Hyundai Exter 1.2L Petrol MT
1.2L petrol engine makes 82 BHP @ 6,000 rpm and 114 Nm @ 4,000 rpm.
The Exter is powered by the same 1.2L, 4-cylinder NA petrol that does duty in the Grand i10 Nios, Aura and Venue. It puts out 82 BHP, which is more than the NA units of the Citroen C3, Nissan Magnite and Renault Kiger, but lower than the Maruti Fronx's 89 BHP and Tata Punch's 87 BHP.
The petrol engine has been around for a while now, but it is still a gem of an engine. With your foot on the clutch, press the engine start/stop button. One can immediately notice the sheer refinement of this motor. The petrol starts seamlessly. Torque delivery at low rpms and in city driving conditions is satisfactory by petrol standards. We could pull the engine from 800 rpm without any effort. Use the clutch and the engine will pull from as low as 500 rpm! Closing the gap to the car in front is no problem. One can drive around at 40 km/h in 5th gear with the tachometer reading 1,100 rpm. The refinement levels are outstanding and power comes in smooth. I didn't observe a single flat spot in the entire rpm range.
Prod the engine further and its rev-happy nature becomes immediately evident. The 1.2L petrol feels eager on the open road and climbs clean to the 6,600 rpm limit. There is plenty of mid-range punch. The engine starts coming into its stride and ~1,700 rpm and pulls strongly from ~2,200 rpm Overtaking fast traffic only requires a downshift. Expressway performance is adequate. In terms of cruiseability, in 5th gear, 100 km/h is seen at 2,800 rpm. Overall, we would describe the performance of the Exter to be adequate, but not exciting.
The 5-speed manual transmission is slick to operate. The throws are smooth and sure-slotting. The clutch is super light and the travel range is average.

Noise, Vibration & Harshness (NVH)
There is a very slight shake of the body as the engine cranks, but other than that, there are no vibrations felt inside the cabin. At idle, you will not even know that the engine is running. While driving around calmly, the cabin remains silent. Even at 80 km/h. one doesn’t need to raise his voice to talk to the other occupants of the car. However, as the revs climb past 3,200 rpm or so, the engine makes itself heard in the cabin. The engine feels smooth when high-revving, though it can get fairly vocal over 5,000 rpm. It never sounds rough or bad.
Wind noise starts creeping into the cabin above 100 km/h. While it gets louder with speed, it’s not excessive at 120 km/h. Road noise and tyre noise are average.

Mileage & Fuel Economy
The 1.2L naturally aspirated petrol has an ARAI-certified fuel efficiency of 19.4 km/l for the MT and 19.2 km/l for the AMT. In our short drive, which included some fast driving and idling we saw 15-16 km/l on the MID. With better driving, we are pretty sure that the engine will deliver much better FE figures.
No insulation sheet under the bonnet.
No underbody protection. You can see the ground below clearly.

Suspension & Ride Comfort
The Exter comes with a McPherson strut suspension at the front and a coupled torsion beam suspension at the rear. The ride over small potholes and uneven roads at city speeds is compliant. No bumps are transmitted hard into the cabin. Even over bad roads, the suspension does a good job of keeping the car's occupants comfortable. Of course, large potholes do register themselves in the cabin, but overall, the ride quality is very compliant. The suspension works silently too.
The higher variants of the Exter ride on 15-inch wheels with 175/65 section tyres and the recommended tyre pressure is 32 PSI.

Handling & Dynamics
The Exter has a suspension setup that’s on the softer side. Straight-line stability is good for a car in this segment and occupants won't even know that the car is cruising at triple-digit speeds. Expansion joints on the highway do not unsettle it, but it does wallow a little.
On long curves, the car holds its line well. Push the car on twisty roads and you will experience body roll. Our test car came with 175/65 R15 JK UX Royale tyres. While these are fine for regular driving, they are just not good enough for spirited cornering. The body roll, numb steering and skinny tyres mean that the Exter is not very happy being pushed hard on twisty roads. It’s better to drive the car within its limits and yours.

Steering
The Exter gets an electric power steering, which is very user-friendly. It's light at parking and city speeds and most owners will appreciate that. The compact dimensions of the car, light steering and a tight turning radius make it very easy to drive in the city. At higher speeds, the steering weighs up and there’s little vagueness in the centre. However, from an enthusiast's perspective, there’s nothing on offer. It feels very disconnected and light even at high speeds and on twisty roads, you will find that it doesn't relay much feedback.

Braking
The Exter is equipped with disc brakes at the front and drum brakes at the rear. The performance is as expected and the car comes to a halt without much drama. Under hard braking too, the car doesn't lose its composure. That being said, wider tyres would have improved braking further.

Hyundai Exter Exterior Images
The front end is the best-looking part of the car. It features H-shaped LED DRLs connected by a slim black insert, "EXTER" lettering, a piano black parametric design radiator grille, projector headlamps and a silver skid plate.
Rear features many cuts and creases. You get H-shaped tail lamps with a piano black parametric design applique connecting them and a skid plate. Exhaust pipe peeps out from the right.
Distinct creases & bulges on the sides give the car character. Black body cladding lends it a rugged look and makes it appear tall.
Notice the number of cuts and creases on the side! There is no clean panel anywhere on the car.
The Exter measures 3,815 mm in length, 1,710 mm in width, and 1,631 mm in height with a wheelbase of 2,450 mm. Despite all the attempts to make the Exter look like an SUV, the small size robs it of street presence.
H-shaped DRLs are unique and look amazing. Halogen turn-indicators are located in the same housing.
A look at the LED DRLs and turn-indicators in action.
Black insert connects the LED DRLs. "EXTER" lettering is located on the bumper below.
Halogen projector headlamps are placed on the bumper, just below the DRLs. They get chrome housings.
Wide piano black parametric design radiator grille is located on the bumper. An air dam is provided below the number plate. A large silver skid plate has fake screw detailing and a wind deflector has been provided below.
Shockingly, no underbody protection at all! Not even a plastic cover below the engine.
Like the rest of the car, the bonnet gets strong creases. It features a large "H" badge.
Glossy black ORVMs are electrically-foldable and have integrated turn-indicators with silver inserts. They also have an auto-folding function on lock / unlock.
Body-coloured door handles with a black request sensor and keyhole on the driver's door. No request sensor or keyhole on the front passenger's door.
Panel gaps are tight and uniform all over.
15-inch diamond cut alloys are shod with 175/65 section JK UX Royale tyres. Mud flaps have been provided just ahead of the wheels.
Drum brakes at the rear. Just like the front, mud flaps have been provided just ahead of the wheels.
Front wheel wells get full plastic cladding, while rear ones get a thin rubberised coating.
Glass area is large and lets in a lot of light.
C-pillar is thick and features parametric detailing.
To add to the muscular look, the Exter gets glossy black roof rails. Sunroof is available in SX, SX(O) and SX(O) Connect variants.
Rear section of the roof is ribbed and carries a sharkfin antenna. Notice how the roof curves downwards.
Tail-lamp clusters consist of H-shaped pilot lamps, halogen stop lamps, reversing lamps and turn-indicators.
A look at the H-shaped LED tail-lamps in action.
Dynamic rear spoiler houses the HMSL.
Rear windshield is adequately sized. Tailgate gets a parametric design piano black applique connecting the tail lamps and houses badges depicting the model and variant.
Rear camera is tucked away above the number plate (on the left).
Dual-tone bumper houses two parking sensors and a large silver skid plate with slim reflectors. Towing point is located below the bumper, in the middle.
37L fuel tank sits just ahead of the rear axle.

Hyundai Exter Interior Images
All-black dashboard with 3D pattern design crashpad and light sage inserts. Interiors are well-designed, nice looking and user-friendly. Ergonomics are absolutely perfect with all controls falling easily to hand.
Windscreen is large and offers a good view of the road ahead. The seating position is a little high up, but it's more like a tall hatchback than an SUV. Some will appreciate that they can view the bonnet while driving.
Leather-wrapped steering wheel is carried over from the other Hyundai cars. The bottom spoke gets this gunmetal black-like finish to go with the all-black theme. Steering can be adjusted for height only, not for reach.
Buttons for the infotainment system, telephony and voice commands are placed on the left spoke. Buttons for operating the MID and cruise control are placed on the right spoke. Toggle switches get silver inserts.
Engine start/stop button has a brushed silver ring around it.
Fully-digital instrument cluster with a speedometer on the left, 4.2-inch MID in the middle and tachometer on the right is easy to read. Digital fuel and temperature gauges have been provided.
Notice how the number of red lines around the speedometer and tachometer increases as the revs rise. The rev counter turns red at 6,500 rpm.
The MID shows average and instant fuel consumption, distance-to-empty counter, a single trip meter, & outside temperature reading. The trip meter shows the distance travelled, average consumption and time taken. The MID further shows a summary of the drive when you switch the car off.
MID also displays turn-by-turn navigation, TPMS readings and the specific door that is open. It also tells you if the bonnet or tailgate is open.
Stalks exude quality! As has been mentioned before, the quality of plastics is very good for this segment. Left stalk controls the functions of the front and rear wipers, whereas the right stalk controls the headlamps and front foglamp. While automatic headlamps have been provided, automatic rain-sensing wipers have been left out.
Side air-con vents are circular and get gloss black rings with light sage highlights around them. They throw out a serious amount of air.
Switches for the rear camera and headlamp level adjustments are located below. The traction control off button is also located here (don't ever use it unless starting off on slippery surfaces like slush & snow).
Like the dashboard, the door pads get an all-black theme. The upper portion gets an insert with 3D detailing just like the crashpad on the dashboard. While all the plastics are hard, the door pads are well-finished with no sharp edges anywhere. They are scooped out where you would rest your arm.
Door handles get a dark grey metal finish. They feel sturdy.
Console houses the usual set of buttons. Only the driver's window gets one-touch up/down and anti-pinch functionality and only the driver’s window button is backlit. In fact, the other window switches are not even marked. Door mirrors are electrically foldable. ORVM adjuster selector switch is weird. One of the two mirrors is always selected - there is no middle / dead position. So, if by chance, you press the adjuster, one of the mirrors will change its angles.
Door pad can hold a 1-litre bottle and other small items.
Front seats of the SX, SX(O) and SX(O) Connect variants are draped in a combination of fabric and leatherette upholstery with contrast stitching and "EXTER" embossed on the backrests. They are good-looking, wide and offer a fair deal of support. They have side bolsters, which give good lateral support. However, heavier folk will find these side bolsters digging into their backs. While under-thigh support is good, back support could have been better. The actual backrest area is too t-h-i-n and the headrests are fixed.
A closer look at the fabric and leatherette upholstery and the contrast stitching & piping. The quality of materials used is good.
All variants get height adjustment for the driver's seat.
No height adjustment for the front passenger seat.
Seatbelts are not height-adjustable but are placed at a comfortable height. Both front seatbelts get pre-tensioners.
Pedals are properly spaced out. A very useable dead pedal has been provided as well. AMT versions of the SX, SX(O) and SX(O) Connect variants get metal pedals.
Fuel flap release is placed on the floor.
ORVMs are sufficiently tall, but could have been wider.
IRVM looks upmarket. It is wide enough to cover the entire rear windshield.
IRVM houses 3 buttons - the SOS button will place an emergency call to Hyundai customer care, the button with the tow truck will call Hyundai Roadside Assistance and the third button will launch Blue Link. However, for all these advanced features, Hyundai has not provided the auto-dimming function - a huge miss!!! You get a standard day / night manual flick switch.
Dual-way dash cam with a 2.31-inch LCD display features full HD quality, smartphone-based connectivity with an Android / IOS-based app and multiple recording modes to capture photos and video.
The rearward view is just average. The rear windshield is fair in size, but the C-pillars are thick. Better to rely on the reversing camera and parking sensors.
Centre fascia tilts slightly towards the driver. It features an 8-inch touchscreen head unit. A thick dark grey border with a metal finish runs around the air-con vents. Piano black is used around the infotainment screen. Switches and knobs are located on either side of the head unit.
8-inch touchscreen infotainment system is sleek to operate and gets wired Android Auto & Apple CarPlay and onboard navigation.
Touchscreen has a crisp display and is visible even under direct sunlight, but the audio quality is just adequate.
Infotainment system gets BlueLink telematics and offers 60+ connected car features. Prominent features include multi-regional support (12 languages - 10 regional and 2 international), OTA updates for the infotainment system and maps and Home2Car: integrated with Alexa.
Another feature is the ambient sounds of nature. This will play a selection of sounds through the speakers.
Touchscreen doubles up as a display for the rearview camera and features adaptive guidelines which indicate the path that the car is going to take (based on steering input). As we have seen earlier, there are 2 rear parking sensors provided on the car. The camera has a nice wide angle, while the display quality is fair.
Climate control system gets easy-to-read black buttons and light sage inserts on the knobs. The cooling performance is very impressive. Hyundai has equipped the Exter with Eco Coating - a technology that is claimed to eliminate air-conditioner odour.
2 USB ports and a 12V power outlet are located below the climate control system on the centre fascia. The Type C port on the left can only be used for fast charging, while the Type A unit on the right can be used to connect your smartphone to the infotainment system as well as for charging purposes. 12V power outlet gets a flip-up plastic cover. Hyundai has provided a plug-in USB port that can be slotted into the 12V charging socket. It comes with a plastic cover.
The base of the center fascia features a wireless smartphone charger Remember, your smartphone needs to have the wireless charging function for this feature to work.
5-speed leather-wrapped gear knob gets a glossy black top with a silver border. Gear lever has a leather boot.
Bird's eye view of the handbrake console. Hyundai should have given a centre armrest with a storage box in this car.
Crashpad gets 3D detailing. Long and fairly deep storage spot above the glovebox gets a lip to keep parked items from falling. This is a good place for the front passenger to keep his smartphone and other small items.
Glovebox is medium-sized. It gets a cooling vent, but no illumination.
Roof bezel consists of map lights and sunroof controls.
Bluetooth mic is positioned above the driver on the roofliner. It should have been integrated into the roof lamp console for a cleaner look IMHO.
Sunvisors are economy-grade in design, yet they don’t feel flimsy. Driver-side unit merely gets a flap to hold tickets, but no mirror or illumination. Passenger-side sunvisor gets a vanity mirror, but there's no cover or light provided.
6 airbags are standard on all variants of the Exter. These include dual front airbags, side airbags and curtain airbags.
Size of the sunroof is adequate for the cabin.
With the sunroof (or even its cover) open, a lot of light comes into the cabin. This is the max it opens to.
SX(O) and SX(O) Connect variants are equipped with ambient footwell lighting.
Brown keyfob with silver buttons and chrome highlights is similar to other Hyundai cars. We like the design, but not the brown.
Like the front doorpads, the ones at the rear have an all-black theme. The rear speakers are housed in them.
Door pockets can hold a 1-litre bottle and some knick-knacks.
Legroom is sufficient even for occupants with longer limbs.
The seatback has a comfortable angle. There is enough headroom for even taller occupants, but thigh support is lacking.
Rear seat is more suitable for 2 adults and a child, rather than 3 adults. While the seat base is largely flat, the seatbacks have some contours to hold you in place. 2 adjustable headrests have been provided along with ISOFIX child seat anchors on both sides, but there is no centre armrest.
All 3 occupants get 3-point seatbelts.
Rear window is large and lets a lot of light into the cabin.
Seatbacks of the front seats are slightly scooped out & soft, liberating more knee room for the rear passengers. Front seatback pocket only for the left side passenger. It is not very wide or deep.
Rear air-con vents are provided on all, except the EX and EX(O) variants. While there is only one common air volume controller, their direction can be adjusted individually. 12V power outlet sits below the rear air-con vents. No USB port for rear passengers to use.
Floor hump is wide and prominent.
Spring-loaded grab handles have been provided above all passenger doors. Only the rear-right unit gets a coat hook.
Whitish-grey roof liner is scooped out at the rear to release some additional headroom. It dips down where the sunroof is located. .
2nd cabin lamp is placed behind the sunroof, hence serving both (front & rear) seat rows.
391-litre boot is among the biggest in the segment. It is large enough to accommodate luggage for weekend family trips.
High-loading lip means you have to make an effort to put your bags in or take them out.
Lower part of the tailgate is cladded on the inside.
Large parcel tray comes with a recessed area and prominent border to keep things from rolling onto the rear seat.
Boot light is located on the right.
Bag hook has been provided on the left.
Folding the rear backrest down gives you a much larger cargo capacity. However, the Exter doesn't come with an adjustable boot floor and you cannot get a flat loading bay.
Spare wheel in all trim levels is a 14-inch steel unit with 165/70 section rubber. The higher variants should definitely have gotten a spare of the same size as the regular wheels. Tools are housed in a soft bag, which sits in the spare wheel.