Land Rover Defender Review

Land Rover Defender Pros
Fabulous styling! Land Rover has perfectly amalgamated history with contemporariness
Solid, rugged and indestructible feel. You'll love driving the Defender. It oozes character
Interiors portray extreme thoughtfulness in design & offer loads of practicality
Wide engine range includes a 2.0P, 3.0P and 3.0D. V8 petrol is on the horizon too
Air suspension offers very good ride comfort
Comes fully loaded with kit & technology. Rugged, but has all the modern goodies
Offroad capability is top class!
5-star Euro NCAP safety rating & equipment

Land Rover Defender Cons
2.0 petrol feels strictly 'adequate'. Get the larger 3.0 motors if you can
Workhorse 2.0 diesel (usually the best seller in India) isn't on sale
2.0 Petrol AT's low fuel economy (again, the 2.0 diesel will be missed)
Some interior parts don't feel luxurious, keeping the price tag in mind
Land Rover's questionable long-term reliability
Expensive, especially the higher variants & bigger engines
3rd seat row is too small & tiny to be usable

Introduction
The Defender has been an iconic name ever since it came out in the mid-1980s. It’s known for its off-roading prowess and the ability to almost go anywhere. In fact, the body shape didn’t change until the 2020 model, when an all-new Defender was introduced. This is what we have driven, and what was recently launched in India. We get both the 3-door 90 version and the 5-door 110 version, akin to the original Defender. There are 4 and 6 cylinder options in both petrol and diesel, and a V8 Defender was recently introduced too (not yet in India though). The new Defender has some major changes. It has now shifted to a monocoque from the body-on-frame construction, and it also uses air suspension now, though a regular coil spring suspension is available too. Land Rover has tried to bring the Defender up to date with the latest tech and comfort while keeping its off-roading credentials intact. And it has done it well!

Exterior
Head on, the Defender has quite a bit going on. It definitely looks intimidating. Unique grill designs are a bit quirky. Fog lights are in the recess of the silver trim on the lower part of the vehicle. The Gondwana Stone exterior paint is an option, and it suits the shape of the Defender in my opinion.
Front 3/4th view is where you can see the length of the car. But the shape is such that the actual length is very well hidden. This 110 is a proper full-length SUV. I would describe it is as quirky yet minimalistic. The suspension is at the regular height in this picture.
Suspension at offroad height in this picture. The wading depth of the Defender is 900 mm, and it's got a wade sensing feature which shows you the depth of the water you are traversing in real-time. Will be super useful in Mumbai floods. Note the air intake positioned in the side fender vents. Overhangs are very short. The 20" optional wheels with 275 section tyres provided surprisingly good ride quality and managed to do a good all-round job. There are various wheel options available from 18" steel wheels, to 22" alloy wheels.
The Defender looks muscular with the widening of the body below the window line. The body-coloured part on the C-pillar has various accessories available which fit on top of it, such as a storage box or a ladder to get to the roof rack (again an accessory).
Like the front, the rear too has many colours and textures. The tail-lights are very unique with a 4 box design on each side. The smaller lights on the outside are very cool, and the tailgate-mounted spare adds to the looks. The tailgate is assisted in some way, and the last few mm are managed by a soft close function.
Bright LED headlights, with the signature DRL. These are the regular LED headlights, while there is also a matrix beam LED available as an option. They haven't really missed any driving tech in the Defender. The little squares on the side look cool, matching the small tail-light squares.
A big Defender badge, just so that everyone knows what it is. Land Rovers get the model name badging on the front, while Range Rovers have badging of, well, Range Rover.
Another look at the Defender. It's a posh off-roader and it fits in everywhere - right from urban roads to weekend getaways such as this one.

Interior
The interior of the Defender is very unique too. Land Rover has designed it to look rugged and to be functional at the same time. The rough wood used on the side of the centre section felt great, and this is one of the few cars I wished they had used more wood in. Exposed screws / rivets have been used in many places, and add to the stylish look.
So many storage spaces all over the cabin. Here's a look at the front. There are compartments under the centre console, behind the screen, a full shelf in the dashboard, and huge pockets in the door. There's more than enough space to store whatever one wants, and more!
The driver cockpit area with a rather large steering wheel. The steering wheel sections in white aluminium look and feel good, and the buttons on the steering feel very long-lasting too. The buttons are unique, and additional buttons are lit up and become functional depending on the menu one is in. When done, the lighting goes off and the buttons look non-existent.
Digital cockpit like other Land Rovers. It has similar functions like changing the views and format of showing the data. The resolution is good, and it is informative and lastly looks cool to have on a vehicle like this.
White aluminium on the side of the dashboard too. It comes as a package along with other finish options for various places all over the car.
A look at the door pads, with exposed screws here again. Hard plastic is used to make it feel tough. Meridian badges can be seen. I like the fact that this car seems to be meant for rough use, but doesn't miss out on any creature comforts.
The driver's side door controls. The display above the seat memory buttons is a feature which is like a blind spot detection for the doors. So when a door is opened even a tad bit, the light blinks in case there is a car or a cyclist or even a pedestrian approaching and warns the user to keep the door shut or look out. Very useful, like parking sensors for the door in layman's terms.
A special mention for the Meridian music system, which is crisp and clear sounding, especially at high volumes. Nice looking grills seen for most of the speakers.
The front seats are wide and comfortable. Note the wide armrest between them. There is an option to have another seat instead of the centre armrest.
The perforated leather used felt like it is of good quality and strong, and the fabric used on the outer part of the seats was very unique. All the materials used felt like they are built to last.
The centre console area with the new Pivi touchscreen which is easy to use and better than the laggy older systems which JLRs had. There is an optional larger screen which would be my choice. Note the AC controls and gear knob attached to the centre console. The AC knobs double up with other functions - the left side temperature knob doubles up as fan speed controller, and the right side temperature knob doubles up as the Terrain Response selector. The suspension height adjustment and controls for low range gearbox, apart from a few other functions, are also present on this panel. USB C and regular slots are provided, which is nice.
When the armrest is lifted up, a fridge is revealed underneath. I just used it to stash change, but it's a proper fridge and not merely a cooler. Below that, in this pic, is the wireless charging pad (I did mention this car isn't lacking any tech).
The rear seats are spacious and comfortable too. The legroom here is good, far better than the Range Rover Sport. The under-thigh support is good, and it can seat 3 abreast comfortably. The floor hump isn't very high and intrusive.
Very unique windows on the side, which look upwards. Originally meant for safaris, they are more of a style statement now. But they are definitely cool to look through and allow more light into the cabin.
The boot, with third-row seats folded. With the seats up, there isn't much of a boot left. Note the AC controls and cupholder on the side.

Driving the Land Rover Defender 2.0L Petrol Automatic
The Defender is an imposing vehicle, one which you have to climb into, even though the air suspension lowers the access height automatically. It's a vehicle which you see and want a big powerful engine under the hood, which will take you anywhere you want to go. Well, in this particular car, we've got a 2.0L turbo-petrol with 296 BHP and 400 Nm which feels just about sufficient, but it still does take you wherever you want to go. It's one of those vehicles which makes you instantly feel like the king of the road, the same sort of feeling that you get in a G-Wagen. A part of it has to do with the butch body styling, a part of it with the high seating position and commanding view - it's the whole package of the Defender that makes you feel indestructible.
Starting up the tame 2.0L turbo petrol, you barely feel a shiver and will have to look at the tacho to know it's on. While driving though, make no mistake, the engine just about gets the Defender moving and in the city. One has to adapt to a relaxed driving style. Inside the city, the Defender does its job silently. With the good sound insulation and with the silent engine, it's a peaceful place to be in. Pottering around locally, with slow-moving traffic, one feels at ease driving the car. Even though the actual size is camouflaged by the styling, judgment isn't an issue thanks to the good visibility and the Defender is easy to maneuver even in thick traffic. But the moment there is a gap and you want to get on the move and close it, that is when the powertrain disappoints. By the time you have kicked down and the engine has got into the mid-range to give you some sort of a push, it's too late. This can be frustrating at times, and it doesn't help one bit that the 8-speed gearbox feels a bit confused like in the XE. While in the XE, the smaller size and relatively better power to weight ratio with the same engine somewhat hide the defects in the gearbox tuning, in the Defender, it can be annoying.
Out on the open road, the Defender comes into its own. It munches miles like no one's business. And with the pliant ride, good insulation and comfortable seating, one doesn't feel tired even after driving for hours at a stretch. Due to my height, I do get some amount of body pain after driving 5 or 6 hours. But in this SUV, when I got out, I was surprised to feel relaxed and normal. The 2.0L manages to get you along on the highway, and cruising at motorway speeds is no issue at all as long as one is not in a tearing hurry. Though on our highways, considering we have to slow down every now and then for the odd person blocking the right lane, etc., it is then that you really have to string the engine to get the Defender back up to cruising speed. With a larger engine, this will be far, far better. To really get anywhere quick though, you've got to make the engine give all it's got. Flat out, it's not bad at all. The engine makes a pleasant sound while being pushed, but once you look at the speedometer, you realise that you haven't really gotten anywhere. Basically, the small turbo petrol is good for relaxed driving. Even for performing some overtakes, you have to be very liberal with the A pedal. The brakes are powerful and the pedal feel is good. They managed to bring the car down from speeds effortlessly whenever needed and didn't fade even after hard driving. They are obviously meant for bigger engined and faster Defenders, and on this, they were more than what's needed.
Many were surprised that LR gave the Defender air suspension, considering its hardcore offroad credentials and the need for it to take abuse. But, I believe the air suspension has been heavily updated and revised and will get the job done. The suspension is something I really loved about the Defender - the way it eats up the roads. Smaller bumps in the city are taken without one even feeling them inside and the larger bumps for which we would have to slow down in most cars, just make the Defender roll slightly from left to right. The suspension is comfortable & pliant and does its job silently. And that too with 20" wheels!! I think it's a great contributor to the effortless way the car munches miles. It just feels tough. High-speed stability is surprisingly good, and the Defender even holds its line in the corners as long as the driver isn't being too crazy with the tall SUV. One has the flexibility of adjusting the height from regular mode, to a lower access height, to a high offroad mode which provides a maximum clearance of 291 mm and some good approach and departure angles (for the few who will actually bother to take it offroad). What is also surprising is the aplomb with which the suspension handled the offroad trails I managed to take the Defender on. I was absolutely comfortable inside.
All in all, the Defender is a special car. It's one which can be used as a daily driver that's comfortable to drive in the city, it's good to cruise on the highway and covers distances with ease, and it can manage to take quite a beating off paved roads. Apart from that, with the road presence and brand value, it's got appeal for sure. Just make sure to get a 6-cylinder engine at the very least, although the 2.0P will do for most regular non-enthusiasts.