Mahindra XUV700 Review

Mahindra XUV700 Pros
Handsome styling matched to solid build quality. Has street presence, feels robust
Very spacious interiors with comfy seats and sorted ergonomics. 6-footer passengers welcome!
182 BHP turbo-diesel & 197 BHP turbo-petrol make for a potent line-up
Smooth 6-speed torque converter Automatics available with both engines
Sorted suspension with good road manners & high speed stability
AWD available for the adventurous, unlike most FWD crossovers in the segment
Loaded with features like radar-based driver assistance system, pop-out door handles, panoramic sunroof, driver memory seat, 360-degree camera, 10.25" infotainment & instrument cluster etc.
12-speaker Sony audio system is fantastic! You'll enjoy its sound quality
Safety features include 7 airbags, ESP, all-wheel disc brakes, hill hold, hill descent control, driver drowsiness detection, TPMS, ISOFIX...

Mahindra XUV700 Cons
Negligible boot space with the 3rd-row seat up. Either 5 onboard, or 7 with a roof-top carrier
Cramped 3rd-row seat is best suited to children only. A sliding middle row is sorely missed
Petrol AT is thirsty due to its hefty weight, 197 BHP & torque-converter AT
Some cabin plastics & a few rough areas don't feel premium in an otherwise loaded SUV
Missing features such as an auto-dimming IRVM, ventilated seats, paddle shifters, full-size spare wheel, ambient lighting, rear sunblinds...
Concerns over niggles & bugs in a freshly baked, complex Mahindra. We saw 2!
Mahindra's after-sales service is a hit or miss. Remains a gamble
AWD is available just with the Diesel AT, and not the MT or petrol motor

Introduction
The XUV500 did a lot of things right, which is why the car was a runaway success. Think of the XUV700 as a vastly improved XUV500 - the same formula, but modernized for the times of 2021. Based on first impressions & the killer entry pricing, it sure seems like Mahindra has a winner on its hands. The XUV700 is offered with multiple powertrain options, is loaded with features (plenty segment firsts), has spacious interiors, looks like an SUV (not a small crossover/MPV) and most importantly, has an attractive starting price tag.
The XUV700 (pronounced as XUV 7 double 'Oh') was internally codenamed the project W601. This is the SUV that puts Mahindra back in the game & boy, there are a lot of talking points. Let’s start with the drivetrain options. The first one is a 2.0-litre turbocharged petrol engine that makes 197 BHP and 380 Nm. It’s offered with a 6-speed manual or 6-speed automatic transmission. The second engine on offer is a 2.2-litre turbocharged diesel that makes 153 BHP & 360 Nm mated to a 6-speed MT in the MX (base) variant. The same engine is offered in a higher state of tune in more expensive variants and makes 182 BHP & 420 Nm with the 6-speed MT. In the 6-speed AT trims, it has 30 Nm more torque. Yes, the XUV700 does have that true Mahindra DNA = the 6-speed AT is offered with an optional AWD system as well.

Mahindra XUV700 Price
Mahindra has gone super aggressive with the starting prices, but we will have to wait and see how the rest of the lineup is positioned. There are 4 variants on offer – MX, AX3, AX5 and AX7 and the price of the base MX variant with a 197 BHP, 2.0-litre petrol engine & 6-speed MT is Rs. 11.99 lakh (ex-showroom). That makes it the most powerful SUV on offer under the Rs. 15-lakh (on-road) price barrier. The MX variant with the diesel engine is priced at Rs. 12.49 lakh. Prices of the AX3 and AX5 petrol MT variants are Rs. 13.99 lakh and Rs. 14.99 lakh, respectively. While Mahindra will reveal prices of other variants at a later date, at these starting prices, the company has managed to grab everyone’s attention. Heck, 23.32% of BHPians expected it to be priced in the range of Rs. 19-25 lakhs.

Exterior
Design & Styling
Look at the XUV700 and there is undeniably a major "XUV500" vibe from it. Mahindra has sufficiently reworked it and the SUV does look good. We think it's based on the same platform, even if heavily revamped. However, Mahindra are adamant that it’s an all-new platform. The overall design seems appealing and you just know the mass market will love it. Some areas though - like those oversized headlamp clusters or the unusual radiator grille design - will surely polarise opinions. We must add that this SUV has excellent street presence.
Notable features include LED headlamps with integrated DRLs & "arrowhead" LED tail-lamps (both get sequential turn indicators), LED foglamps, LED cornering lamps, 18-inch diamond-cut alloy wheels and smart door handles that pop out when you unlock the car - a first in segment feature. The vehicle is available in 5 single-tone body colours.

Build Quality, Fit & Finish
The XUV700 has a monocoque structure that uses high strength steel. It has a BIW with a ring structure for greater torsional stiffness. The car feels well built and sturdy. The doors have a good deal of weight to them. Even the bonnet is quite heavy and most people will be using both their hands to push it up. Interestingly, the tailgate has been made with plastic. Still, it’s not light by any means...it feels sturdy. The panel gaps, though not as tight as we've seen on some other cars, are even and the paint finish is good too.

Wheels & Tyres
The base MX and AX3 variants get 17-inch steel wheels, but it's only the latter that gets wheel covers! The AX5 variant has 17-inch diamond-cut alloy wheels, while the AX7 wears 18-inch diamond-cut rims. The 18-inch alloys on our test car were shod with 235/60 R18 Apollo Apterra HP tyres. Some of the other test cars at the media drive were rolling on MRF tyres. The wheel and tyre combination looks nice. It's not oversized and the cladding on the wheel arches just adds a little more proportion to the design of the vehicle.

Ground Clearance
The XUV700 has an unladen ground clearance rating of 200 mm (laden = 160 mm), which should be more than you'll need in the real world.
Safety
With market trends moving towards safety, Mahindra has gone the extra mile to equip the XUV700 with loads of safety features. The highlight is the Advanced Driver Assistance System (ADAS), which is tech for various features like forward collision warning, auto emergency braking, lane departure warning, lane keep assist, adaptive cruise control, smart pilot assist, traffic sign recognition and high beam assist. The tech sounds impressive, although Mahindra's patchy reputation with regards to electronics & niggles does bother us. Apart from this, you get a TPMS, 360-degree surround view monitor, blind view monitor, 7 airbags, driver drowsiness detection, auto booster headlamps (extra illumination when the speed is above 80 km/h), traction control, ESP, hill-hold, hill descent control, rollover mitigation, secondary collision mitigation, brake disc wiping, torque vectoring by braking and electronic brake prefill. Sure sounds like a list you'd read off a Mercedes brochure, but again, what's key is that the features should work well & reliably.

Interior
Cabin Design & Quality
The dual-tone dashboard is pleasing to look at. It's simple, clean and looks plush too. Yes, the large display panel is very Mercedes-inspired, but it lends the cabin an upmarket feel and will surely make the job of salespeople a bit easier. Overall, the cabin feels airy with white seats (good luck keeping them clean), large windows and a panoramic sunroof.
There are no soft-touch plastics on the dashboard. You do, however, get a soft, white leather-clad crashpad that stretches across the length of the dashboard and brings a nice contrast to the design. There are also brushed silver & piano black elements on the dashboard that complement the white very well. The doorpads are all-black with white faux wood inserts, which we didn't like at all. The quality of plastics is average and the fit & finish are acceptable. There are wide gaps, though uniform, at places and you will find some rough edges too. Make no mistake, this is no Hyundai or Kia when it comes to plastic quality or fit. Overall cabin quality is acceptable, but nothing to rave about.

Space & Comfort
Getting in and out of the XUV700 is a breeze given its high roof and the lower floor (compared to traditional body-on-frame SUVs). Just like the XUV500, the interior is spacious enough for 5 adults to sit in comfort. Second row legroom is generous and a 6-footer passenger can easily sit behind an equally tall driver. Headroom is also sufficient at the front & back. The third row, however, is just adequate for a couple of kids at best.
The front seats provide excellent support and are comfortable. The driver's seat has a 'welcome' function like some high-end German cars. This means it’ll slide back when you open the door (for easier ingress) and go back to its last set position once you close the door. Do note that only the driver’s seat gets electric adjustments, while the passenger seat has manual adjustments. The seat cushioning is neither too soft nor too hard - it’s perfect. The seats have healthy side bolstering to keep you in place on twisty roads, while an adjustable center armrest adds to the comfort levels. The white perforated leather upholstery looks great, but it will be easily soiled. What is disappointing is that Mahindra has not provided seat ventilation - a must have feature in expensive Indian cars today.

Driving Position & Ergonomics
With an 8-way powered driver seat and tilt & telescopic adjustments for the steering, finding your perfect driving position is easy. It’s worth noting that the telescopic adjustment is excessively hard - pulling the steering outward requires effort. Otherwise, the flat-bottom steering is nice to hold and also has thumb contours. Buttons on the steering wheel are easily reachable and feel alright to use as well. All other controls are within easy reach of the driver. The instrument cluster is fully digital and is very easy to read. Sitting in the driver’s seat, the frontal visibility is satisfactory, except for the thick A-pillars. The bonnet will be visible to some drivers.

Cabin Storage
The cabin is equipped with all the usual storage solutions. Look closely and you will find a few unique spots too. For instance, in the center console (above the wireless charging pad), you have another slot that can hold your smartphone. Similarly, the glovebox also has a separate compartment for a tablet or small laptop. The front doorpads offer a slot for an umbrella, while the roof bezel has a sunglass holder. Apart from this, you get a spacious glove box, a couple of cupholders on the center console, a well sized + cooled storage bin under the driver armrest and door pockets that can hold 1-liter bottles with some knick-knacks.
Second row passengers get a smartphone holder below the rear air-con vents, cupholders in the center armrest, seatback pockets and standard-fare door pockets. Even third-row passengers get cupholders.

Air-Conditioning
The XUV700 has a dual-zone climate control system that works superbly. On a hot day in Chennai, the air-con managed to keep us cool and comfy. It also has a 'Max AC' button that cranks up the cooling to chill the cabin faster. This function is super useful when you come to a hot car and need cooling fast! The car is equipped with an air purifier which is in-built in the climate control system. It uses a purifier unit just after the cabin filter that is claimed to kill fungus-causing bacteria and viruses. Lastly, Mahindra is using an activated carbon cabin filter for the XUV700.

Features
Unique & Noteworthy Features
The XUV700 comes with a laundry list of features that could even embarrass luxury cars costing thrice as much! Some of them are offered as part of an optional pack, details of which will be revealed later. In the top variant that we got to test, there are the smart door handles, LED foglamps and cornering lamps, inbuilt navigation, wireless phone charger, wired/wireless Android Auto and Apple CarPlay, inbuilt Alexa, connected car technology, auto headlamps, auto wipers, panoramic sunroof, driver seat memory function, 360-degree camera with blind-spot monitoring and more. As mentioned earlier, the car further gets a whole host of safety features including ADAS. In essence, the XUV700 almost has all the features that you would expect, except for an auto-dimming IRVM (shocker!), ventilated seats (so useful in hot India) and a powered tailgate.

Audio System & Sound Quality
The infotainment unit and instrument cluster both have a 10.25-inch display and use software that has been developed in India. The controller software is built with Android and QNX. The controller is a 3rd-generation Qualcomm Snapdragon automotive cockpit platform developed in collaboration with Visteon. The touchscreen has a very user-friendly layout and the display is excellent. What’s good to see is that the font on the markings in the cabin (e.g. air-con controls, control stalks etc.) matches that of the touchscreen and the instrument cluster, which is lovely attention-to-detail. You can control the touchscreen via a rotary dial on the center console while driving, and it is rather intuitive to use as well. The only problem is that, like most freshly-baked Mahindras, it might develop some bugs over time (our test car did).
The sound system has been developed in collaboration with Sony and SQ is truly fantastic! It comes with a "3D sound experience" (fancy term for surround??) and is a delight to listen to. There are 12 speakers in total – 2 tweeters, 4 full-range door speakers, 1 subwoofer and 5 wide-range speakers (4 roof-mounted & 1 on top of the dashboard). Turbo-boost comes from a 13-channel, 445-watt amplifier with DSP. There are many configurations that you can try out with the 3D sound experience (preset modes – immersive 3D, stage, party, breezy); the differences between them are distinct and not just for namesake. Apart from this, Mahindra-Sony have provided a sound enhancement feature that essentially enhances compressed music files to higher quality. Then, the speed-dependent volume control has been tuned by Sony to modulate the frequency of sound so that the transition is seamless when you gain speed, and also the balance of the acoustics is maintained.

Rear Passengers
Rear Seat Comfort & Space
There’s excellent space for second-row passengers & your family members will be pleased. Cabin width is good enough for three adults, although larger ones would find it a bit tight. Just like the front, the rear seat's cushioning is on point.
At 5’10”, I had about an inch and a half knee room extra, even with the front seat pushed all the way back! A 6 footer will be able to comfortably sit behind a 6-feet driver. The front passenger seat has a boss lever to push the seat forward to free up more legroom. No complaints on headroom either, although 6-footers might find the roof liner dropping a bit low (panoramic sunroof variants). The seat bench isn’t flat and has supportive contours which makes it comfortable. Under-thigh support is adequate and you can even recline the seatback to a comfy position. Passengers get rear air-con vents and a Type-C USB charging port.
You can access the third row of seats by tumbling the left seat of the second row. Getting into the third row does take some effort. It is difficult for adults, more so if one is unfit. For senior citizens, it’s almost impossible. The last row seats are placed low, which means you sit in a knees-up position. Knee room is poor and even not-so-tall people will be uncomfortable. Moreover, since the second row of seats cannot slide forward, there is no option to increase knee room. There’s very little headroom for third-row adults & my head was touching the roofline. You can recline the backrest, but only through the boot and not while being seated in the third row, which is inconvenient. All in all, the third row is strictly for children. Adults will not like it one bit & we suggest viewing the XUV700 as a 5+2 SUV (not a proper 7-seater). The subwoofer is placed on the left of the seats, while the kids do get a 12V socket for their gadgets, along with air vents to keep them cool. The fan speed can be controlled by turning a rotary knob on the right side.

Boot Space
Mahindra hasn’t revealed the boot figures yet. Still, with all the seats up, there’s very little space left and the boot can only hold a couple of backpacks. With the third row of seats folded, things get better and a good amount of luggage space is available. You can fold the second row to increase cargo capacity further. The best part is, the XUV700 boasts a completely flat floor with all seats down.

Driving the Mahindra XUV700 2.0L Turbo-Petrol AT
Turbo-petrol produces 197 BHP @ 5,000 rpm and 380 Nm @ 1,750 - 3000 rpm.
The 2.0-litre turbo petrol engine that powers the XUV700 is an all-aluminium unit shared with the Thar, but in a far higher state of tune here. It’s mated to a 6-speed torque converter automatic transmission from Aisin. This gearbox is in its third generation (the previous-gen was used in the XUV500). The same AT is deployed for the diesel engine as well.
When it comes to the driving experience, this 2.0 Petrol AT is smooth, sprightly & refined. Mahindra’s mStallion is a likeable motor. Petrol lovers, Delhi-NCR BHPians & those who don't care about fuel-efficiency will appreciate the offering. The petrol engine is smooth & quite city-friendly. Throttle response & driveability are good and turbo-lag, if any, is masked well by the automatic transmission. In bumper-to-bumper traffic, the 2.0 petrol crawls forward (without accelerator input) at ~8 km/h. Power delivery is overall nice & linear. Your passengers will be comfortable as there is no jerkiness or sudden “turbo whoosh”. Because of the turbo-charger, even the midrange power delivery is satisfactory (with NA petrols, midrange is usually a hit or miss). Power comes in strong at ~1,800 rpm and the engine pulls well till just under 5,000 rpm, when the AT shifts up.
On the open road, the turbo-petrol’s 197 BHP means you will be doing silly speeds without even realising it! At Mahindra’s new test track, the XUV700 Petrol AT reached 150 km/h effortlessly and could easily do more. The turbo-petrol revs nicely to the redline, although it isn’t a high-rpm petrol at all. In kickdown mode, the Petrol AT shifts up at just under 5,000 rpm which is rather diesel-like. We sure wish the engine gave us at least another 1,000 - 1,200 rpm to play with, as it does in the Petrol MT variant which revs higher. The mid-range is strong and there is enough power on tap to pass traffic with ease. In terms of cruisability, the XUV700 will do 100 & 120 km/h in top gear at a relaxed ~1,600 rpm & ~2,000 rpm respectively.
The 6-speed Aisin torque-converter AT is butter-smooth in its operation, and only the slight change in engine pitch tells you when an upshift happens. When it comes to shifting speed, the transmission is not the fastest we’ve experienced, but it’s not too slow either. Response times are acceptable and we don’t see owners complaining. However, we did notice the AT gearbox getting confused in certain situations –
like when driving hard with varying throttle input – but these incidents were few & far between. The Aisin gearbox does a satisfactory job for the most part. Within the city, you’ll observe the Petrol AT being more downshift-friendly than you’d expect. We reckon Mahindra has done this to prevent the rpm needle from dropping too low and to improve driveability / engine responsiveness. We personally prefer this as it leads to superior throttle response, although the FE-loving customer won’t. The AT does have manual mode...still, most owners will just let the electronics decide all the shifting in such a big SUV. Enthusiasts will miss paddle-shifters though.
The Aisin torque-converter AT is a conventional design & should prove more reliable in the longer run than the complex dual-clutch ATs offered by so many of the XUV700's competitors.

Noise, Vibration & Harshness (NVH)
The 2.0 petrol engine is a refined unit overall. Even at high rpms, engine noise isn’t very intrusive. The engine works hard, yet doesn’t make you feel the same. Wind noise comes in at ~90 kmph and becomes more prominent at 120 - 130 kmph. We found road noise to be controlled; because our test conditions were limited, we will update this if our longer road-test reveals anything else.

Mileage & Fuel Economy
While Mahindra hasn’t revealed the fuel economy figures yet, a 197 BHP turbocharged petrol with an automatic transmission in a large SUV isn’t a recipe for FE. We expect single-digit fuel economy in real-world conditions. Turbo-petrols are extremely sensitive to throttle input and if you drive hard to enjoy the 200 horses, the fuel needle will drop rapidly.

Suspension & Ride Comfort
The XUV700 has a McPherson strut suspension at the front and a multi-link independent suspension at the rear. Both have a stabilizer bar, while the dampers get high-tech frequency selective damping! The XUV700's top variant rides on 18-inch wheels with 235/60 tyres. Because our first drive was on excellent roads & Mahindra's test track, we cannot comment on the ride quality. This will be updated post our longer test-drive. First impressions (but only that) = the ride appears to be compliant overall, with a hint of firmness. We would like to reserve our opinions for the moment.

Handling & Dynamics
Mahindra has paid attention to the dynamics of this car and it shows. The car is stable at high speeds and doesn’t feel nervous. Not even when we crossed 150 kmph on the test track. You can cruise at triple digit speeds with confidence.
The multi-link suspension at the rear is critical when it comes to handling. Body roll is controlled and quick direction changes are handled properly by 'Big SUV' standards. It shifts the balance in a composed manner and holds its line well through fast curves; you do feel the XUV700's height & sheer weight of the vehicle though. It’s only when you push really hard that understeer starts coming in. The 235/60 section Apollo tyres provide good grip, but make a lot of noise when you push the car aggressively.
We drove hard on the track & the slalom section. Suffice to say, we are happy. Will add that the road manners are better than the Tata Harrier / Safari. All those safety features packed into the car will come in handy if you encounter an emergency situation. It's just reassuring to know that the electronics have gotten your back.

Steering
The electric power steering is very light at parking speeds, which makes maneuvering this SUV easy. It weighs up nicely as you gain speed. However, like most electronic power steering units, there’s not much feel or feedback from the EPS.

Braking
The XUV700 is equipped with disc brakes at all 4 ends. They perform well in day to day driving conditions, albeit the bite is quite sharp. We would’ve liked the pedal to be a little more progressive. The car gets 'electronic brake prefill' which builds up pressure in the brake lines, if you sharply take your foot off the accelerator & the computers anticipate a hard braking situation.

Niggles & Problems
Most brand-new Mahindra models have some niggles or the other in their 1st / 2nd production years. Sadly, our test car faced an issue with the infotainment unit (Mahindra clarified that this infotainment unit was a beta version). Ideally, short-pressing the rotary knob should select the option highlighted. Instead, it kept sending the screen to "lock mode". That is, a short press was being recognised as a long press. I tried the same thing on another XUV700 and it worked fine. Another media's test car suffered power loss while driving. Restarting it got the power back, but also a 'check engine' light. Remember that this SUV has a lot of tech wizardry. Make sure you get that extended warranty pack. If you've fallen for the XUV700, we'd recommend buying it once the niggles of the initial batches are sorted out.

Mahindra XUV700 Exterior Images
A good looking car, but the new grille design will take getting used to. Some may not like it.
The rear looks very tight & contemporary. Good to see there’s no excessive use of chrome or LED elements. The XUV700 badging though is very amateur - should have been simpler & classier.
Very XUV500-esque side profile. We think it's the same platform, but Mahindra vehemently disagrees. The unladen ground clearance is rated at 200 mm (laden = 160 mm). To tackle some off-road conditions with the AWD variant, you have an approach angle of 22.6 degrees and a departure angle of 24 degrees.
The XUV700 measures 4,695 mm in length, 1,890 mm in width and 1,755 mm in height with a wheelbase of 2,750 mm. Compared to the XUV500, the wheelbase has gone up by 50 mm. The overall dimensions & sharp styling give the car strong street presence.
Haunches on the front fender and rear quarter panel are more subtle compared to the XUV500. Carrying forward design elements is a good idea to retain the existing customer base. We feel this car is a fantastic upgrade for existing XUV500 owners as well, even if it's more incremental in nature.
Large C-shaped headlamp cluster gets two LED DRL strips that extend downwards. In the XUV500, the C-shaped element housed the foglamp as well which somehow looked fine. But this design is more dramatic to my eyes.
Here’s a look at the sequential turn indicators in action. Very, very classy!
6-slat Mahindra grille is finished in gloss black with silver inserts. Design will take some getting used to.
The new Mahindra logo makes its debut on the XUV700. Front camera sits right below.
LED foglamps also function as cornering lamps. Air curtains have been provided on the sides.
The bumper houses a sleek air dam and a prominent chin. Do note that there are no front parking sensors, which is strange as we'd love audible feedback too (parking sensors are a cheap commodity anyway today). You will have to depend on visuals from the front camera while parking in tight spots.
A healthy amount of underbody protection at the front.
Heavy creases on the bonnet give it an aggressive look. On a side note, the bonnet is heavy to lift.
AdrenoX' is what Mahindra calls its infotainment technology. This includes the software that controls the touchscreen infotainment, instrument cluster and connected car tech.
Side cameras for the 360-degree view are mounted below the ORVMs.
Unlock the car using the keyfob and the smart door handles pop out of their housings. All doors get request sensors. Long press the unlock button on the keyfob and the window goes down and the sunroof opens. The blower starts throwing out air as well! We are a bit concerned about the long-term durability of these pop-out door handles.
The XUV700 has sufficient glass area. The window line rises as you go towards the C & D-pillars. Pillars & their positioning is heavily reminiscent of the XUV500.
We like this 10-spoke diamond cut alloy wheel design. 18-inch rims are shod with 235/60 section tyres. We still feel that 17-inchers is the max that SUVs should go with, because smaller wheels + taller tyre sidewalls are so much more practical for India (less prone to damage, superior ride quality, cheaper replacement costs).
Rear wheels too are equipped with disc brakes. The braking system gets the 'brake disc wiping feature' and 'electronic brake prefill' for enhanced safety. Considering the XUV300 got 5-stars in the GNCAP, we expect no less from the XUV700!
Mahindra claims that the panoramic sunroof is the segment-biggest. Rear section of the roof is ribbed and carries a sharkfin antenna. Roof rails are purely for aesthetic purposes.
The driver assistance system's camera has been mounted behind the IRVM.
Roof spoiler also houses the HMSL and windshield washer. It gets a fin that helps it gel with the D-pillar design.
Arrowhead LED tail-lamps look fab and feature sequential turn indicators. The blinkers look classy! Notice the sharp edge on the tailgate and tail-lamp. This sharp design of the tailgate is one of the reasons why Mahindra decided to use plastic instead of metal.
Plastic tail-gate has multiple cuts and creases with ‘XUV700’ and variant badges placed on the bottom right. There is no badge indicating the type of fuel the car uses.
Rear bumper houses two parking sensors, reflectors at each end and a faux skid plate. We wish Mahindra had retained the 'dual exhaust' look of the XUV500.
18-inch steel spare wheel is mounted underneath and shod with a skinny 155/90 section tyre. That really sucks! Be prepared to drive at a restricted speed of 80 kmph & suffer compromised handling when using the thinner spare tyre. Twin-pipe exhaust hides behind the skid plate.
Here’s a look at some of the other body colours. This one is in a shade of blue, very similar to that of the MG Hector Plus.
The XUV700 in silver and in red.

Mahindra XUV700 Interior Images
The interior design is contemporary, with a Mercedes-esque instrument cluster & infotainment combo. One gets a pleasant feeling once inside the cabin.
Flat-bottom, leather-wrapped steering wheel with silver and piano black inserts sports the new Mahindra logo. With thumb contours, it is nice to hold and is adjustable for height as well as reach. Hornpad is easy to reach and press. The XUV700 gets a sweet-sounding wind-tone horn.
The usual set of steering-mounted controls. Music and telephony controls are on the left spoke, while cruise control and MID controls are on the right. Button quality is satisfactory.
Stalks are a direct lift from the XUV300. Wiper and light stalks give positive feedback and are lovely to use. Foglamp switch is integrated on the light stalk itself. Auto headlamps and rain-sensing wipers work like a charm. A lane change indicator is present. See the second 'auto' setting on the left (silver button)? That's for one-touch washing & wiping of the windscreen! How cool. The silver button on the light stalk is a dummy unit.
Engine start button gets a chrome ring around it and is placed on the left of the steering column.
The 10.25-inch instrument cluster has excellent visibility. An interesting feature here is that, in the tachometer and speedometer, only the area near the needles is illuminated. So, when idling, you can’t actually see the redline. Some may like this, but we prefer seeing the entire gauge. This is what I would call "overdesigning".
The MID displays a host of information including two tripmeters, distance to empty etc. Additionally, you get a TPMS with a tyre temperature display! You can scroll through the various options in the main menu like drive info, vehicle settings, vehicle alerts, audio options, driver assistance options, navigation and fuel info. You can even choose from three display layouts for the speedometer & tachometer. Truly a display that the 'tablet generation' will be pleased with!
Since this vehicle has an advanced driver assistance system (ADAS), there are a whole lot of features that you can use. You even have a driver attention monitor that detects if the driver is drowsy. There’s a blind-spot monitoring system that brings up the feed from the ORVM cameras when you turn on the respective indicators. Do note that ADAS features only control the accelerator and brake inputs. You still have to keep your hands on the steering wheel at all times.
Air-con vents wear a silver border. They can be shut by moving the direction controllers to one side, but some air always keeps trickling out regardless.
That’s a lot of dummy buttons! On this petrol AT FWD variant are the traction control and hill descent control switches. The manual variants get a button for the auto start-stop feature and for the variants with AWD, you get a button to engage the system. Headlamp leveller is placed next to these buttons.
All-black door pad gets a white wood finish plastic panel. This looks out of place IMHO and we’d have preferred to see that soft leather from the dashboard being used in its place. The full-range speaker is placed at the bottom, while the tweeter is at the top.
The driver's seat electric adjustment buttons are placed on the doorpad. Again, very Mercedes-inspired. The headrest adjustment is manual which is why the headrest button is a dummy, and so are the two slots next to the seat! You do get 3 memory settings for the driver's seat.
Power window switches have a similar design to the XUV300, but are finished in glossy black. Only the driver's window gets auto up and down which is disappointing in such a loaded SUV. The buttons feel alright to use, but don't come across as premium at all.
Front door pockets can hold 1-liter bottles along with other knick-knacks. Mahindra has provided a slot for a small umbrella.
Here’s something you don’t see every day. Notice how much the doorpad extends above the window line. This has been done to make the dashboard and doorpad intersection look seamless. It looks okay from the inside, but rather odd from the outside! The top of the doorpad is not wide enough to rest your arm.
Leatherette upholstered front seats are wide & super comfy. They look beautiful! There’s good under-thigh support, and the side bolstering keeps you in place when cornering on twisty roads.
A closer look at the perforation on the leatherette upholstery. Mahindra should’ve provided ventilated seats in the XUV700 (we're hearing rumours of it being offered at a later stage).
The center armrest is wrapped in leatherette and quite usable. It can slide forward, but isn’t adjustable for height.
Storage bin below the armrest comes with a small tray. The compartment gets a rubber mat at the bottom as well as a cooling vent.
Pedals are well-spaced and the dead pedal is wide + comfy to use.
ORVMs are well-sized and provide a good view of the action behind.
Thick A-pillar along with the tweeter and ORVM do create a blind spot.
IRVM's width is fine, but the rear headrests and thick D-pillars restrict visibility. IRVM does not get auto-dimming functionality - a glaring omission!
Thick C & D-pillars and tall rear headrests don’t help visibility either. You'll have to rely heavily on the 360-degree camera.
The highlight of the center fascia is this 10.25-inch touchscreen. While there are multiple elements like piano black, brushed silver, hard plastic and white leather used, the design doesn’t seem complex.
The infotainment system comes with wireless Android Auto and Apple CarPlay connectivity. You also have connected car tech that Mahindra has developed in association with Bosch. It has over 60 features, including remote engine start-stop, geofencing, live tracking etc.
Swipe up and you will find some of the pre-installed apps, along with the menu for connected features. The 360-degree camera displays good footage on the screen. It’s not the smoothest and there is some lag, but it gets the job done. One insane feature on the XUV700 is an inbuilt dashcam! Yes, since the ADAS system is continuously collecting data of Indian road conditions and self-learning, you can access the footage too. The system continuously has 24 hours of footage stored from all four sides. Mahindra has provided an inbuilt navigation system that displays turn by turn directions on the MID.
There are a lot of settings that you can play around with, including those for the audio system. Apart from the regular adjustments for the music system, there are various options for the 3D experience (surround sound).
The XUV700 gets dual-zone climate control. You can switch the rear air-con on / off from the front. Access the 360-degree camera using the button to the right of hazard lights. Long pressing the button next to it is supposed to switch off the screen, but for some reason, it didn’t work on our car!
Below, there is a wireless charging pad and two USB slots, along with a smartphone holder.
Conventional looking AT gear lever. Manual mode is engaged by moving the gear lever to the left. Electronic parking brake and auto hold button are placed next to the gear lever. All variants with the electric parking brake and connected car features get a 'remote engine start' feature.
Rotary knob is intuitive to use. You can toggle through the menus by pushing the knob sideways and select by pressing on it. Buttons surrounding the knob are shortcuts to the most important menus.
The glovebox is properly sized and can hold more than just your car documents. There is an elastic strap at the bottom to keep loose documents in place. In addition, a second storage slot at the top has been designed for a tablet or small laptop. On the flip side, the glovebox is neither illuminated nor cooled.
Roof bezel consists of sunroof controls, a sunglass holder, reading lights and Bluetooth mic. Don't miss the SOS button that will make a call in case of an emergency.
Massive panoramic sunroof lets in a lot of light, making the cabin feel airy. It will also lead to a lot of sales in the showroom!
Rear doorpad design is the same as the front and houses a 16 cm dual cone full-range speaker at the bottom.
Legroom is healthy in the second row and a 6-footer would be comfortable here with another 6-footer in the driver's seat.
Aditya (5’10”) seated behind his own driving position. There’s plenty of legroom on offer. The seats provide good overall support and the backrest can be reclined too for added comfort. The center armrest is placed at a nice height and has two cupholders.
Rear bench gets ISOFIX child seat anchors on both sides.
Smartphone holder and type-C USB charging slot have been provided below the rear air-con vents.
For additional rear legroom, pull on this lever to slide the front seat further ahead.
Only the rear-left seat tumbles forward for one to enter the third row. Ingress & egress is only suitable for the slim and fit.
Aditya looks rather unhappy! Third row of seats is strictly for kids. Adults will be uncomfortable here. Positives include 3-point seatbelts, adjustable headrests, cupholders and the a/c blower control. The backrest is split in a 50:50 ratio and can be reclined or folded forward. Strangely, it can only be reclined from the boot, and not by passengers sitting in the third row.
Poor boot space with the 3rd row in place. On road-trips, it will either be 5 + excellent cargo room, or 7 with a roof-top carrier. All seats can be folded down to form a flat floor.
Tools are neatly arranged in a Styrofoam casing underneath the boot floor.
Emergency fuel lid release is located on the left