2024 Mahindra XUV 3XO Review

Mahindra XUV 3XO Pros
A truly premium crossover. Nice build, quality & refinement levels
Cabin has enough space for 5. Quality-wise, the interior is more like a Hyundai
Fantastic petrol & diesel engine line-up; they offer fast performance & good driveability
Finally gets a smooth torque converter automatic with the turbo-petrol engines
Wide variant spread ensures there's something for everyone
A compliant ride with sorted road manners
5-star NCAP rating & kit. Level 2 ADAS, 6 airbags, ESP, ABS, all-wheel disc brakes, TPMS, seatbelt reminders for all & more
Loaded to the gills with equipment (360-degree camera, big sunroof, drive modes, Harman Kardon audio system, wireless smartphone connectivity, auto headlamps & wipers etc.)

Mahindra XUV 3XO Cons
The new edgy & outlandish design may not be to everyone's liking. Some love it, some don't. It is very polarizing
Top-end variants are expensive. Not overpriced, but definitely higher than expected
295-liter boot is the smallest in the segment. There are cheaper hatchbacks that have a larger boot
No proper diesel automatic option, just a jerky AMT which has no place in a premium crossover
Light & disconnected steering is the biggest drawback in a competent handling package
Mahindra's after-sales service quality is a hit or miss. Remains a gamble
Some important features missing (ventilated seats, parcel tray, full-sized spare wheel, paddle shifters etc.)

Introduction
It's hard to believe how big the small SUV / crossover segment has become. Almost all the manufacturers have introduced products in this lucrative segment. Mahindra is no exception. Their smallest SUV, the XUV300 was launched in India back in 2019. While it didn't make a very big impact in the market, over the years, it has seen some good sales numbers. The car has essentially remained the same since the launch, but now in 2024, Mahindra has finally decided to introduce a facelift. Since it is a major update after a long time, Mahindra has decided to rename the car as well - the XUV300 is now the XUV 3XO.
So, what's new on the XUV 3XO? It gets a refreshed exterior, some changes to the interiors, quite a few feature additions and a new 6-speed Aisin-sourced automatic gearbox for its petrol engines. There's a lot to cover, so let's get right into it.

Mahindra XUV 3XO Price & Brochure
Back in 2019, the XUV300 was launched with a diesel and a turbo-petrol engine with manual transmissions. Now, the XUV 3XO is being offered with 3 engine options with manual and automatic options. You get a 1.5-litre, 115 BHP, diesel engine mated to a 6-speed MT with the option of an AMT. Then you have a 110 BHP, 1.2-litre turbo-petrol engine with Multipoint Fuel Injection (MPFI) mated to 6-speed MT or the new 6-speed AT. Finally, you have the 129 BHP, 1.2-litre turbo-petrol engine with Gasoline Direct injection (GDi) mated to a 6-speed MT or the 6-speed AT.
Prices start at Rs. 7.49 lakh for the base MX1 variant with the 1.2L turbo-petrol (MPFI) 6MT and go up to Rs. 15.49 lakh for the AX7L variant with the 1.2L turbo-petrol (GDi) 6AT. You can check the detailed price list here. How's the XUV 3XO priced against its competitors though? Well, it's a simple approach that we've seen the Koreans take which is something for everyone. The starting price undercuts almost all of its major competitors like the Tata Nexon, Maruti Brezza, Kia Sonet, Hyundai Venue and even the Maruti Fronx. On the other hand, the top-end variant is priced right up there with the costliest cars in the segment. In fact, the AX7L variant with the 1.2L turbo-petrol (GDi) with 6-speed AT is the costliest car in the segment. But look at the entire price list and you'll see that there are 5 variants (MX1, MX2, MX3, AX5 and AX7) along with a couple of sub-variants (Pro & Luxury) and multiple powertrain options. So, in this wide price bracket, most customers are bound to find what they're looking for.

2024 Mahindra XUV 3XO Exterior Review
There's almost no resemblance to the XUV300 at the front. You have a completely new front-end design with big C-shaped LED DRLs at both ends. Gloss black grille sits in the middle carrying the Mahindra twin peaks logo and you have a big air dam at the bottom.
At the rear, you get a connected LED light strip that accentuates the width of the car. You have the Mahindra twin peaks logo in the middle of the tailgate along with "XUV 3XO" lettering.
In the profile, you can see that not much has changed compared to the outgoing car. The prominent body creases on the fender and rear panel are still present. You now get additional body cladding to make the car look more rugged.
The design is a bit too edgy and outlandish for my liking and most BHPians feel the same way.
The Mahindra XUV 3XO measures 3,990 mm in length (-5 mm), 1821 mm in width and 1,647 mm in height (+20 mm). It has a wheelbase of 2,600 mm.
C-shaped LED DRLs are bright and easily visible on the road. On the top half, you have LED projector headlamps and below in the circular pod you have fog lamps. The lights are encased in a piano black housing and if you look closely, you will notice a diamond pattern next to the headlamp cluster.
New bonnet has prominent creases and looks pretty muscular.
Thick piano black grille has the Mahindra twin peaks logo in the middle and six chrome slats.
Air dam has a unique line detailing instead of a simple mesh. It houses the front camera, number plate and radar sensor. Down below you have a brushed silver faux skid plate with diamond-shaped detailing.
Camera for the ADAS Level 2 system sits on the windshield behind the IRVM.
ORVMs are roof-coloured and also house the camera for the 360-degree view system.
Like the XUV300, the XUV 3XO also gets 17-inch alloy wheels with 215/55 section tyres. Alloy wheel design is new and looks very EV-like. Plastic cladding around the wheel arches is thicker and gets a kink at the top.
All-wheel disc brakes are standard across all variants.
You get a 'TGDi Automatic' badge on the left fender.
Roof and roof rails are black. Sunroof that is bigger than the a normal one, but not as big as a panoramic unit.
Sad to see a regular stubby antenna on such a feature-loaded car. Would've appreciated it if Mahindra had provided a shark-fin antenna.
Lots of elements are cramped in this area. For a start, you have diamond detailing on the roof rails. Then, you have a black insert on a blacked-out C-pillar which also has a kink. Next, you have the spoiler which feels like it is pasted on top of the older spoiler. Finally, there's another triangular curvy element below the spoiler as well. The whole design look very busy IMO.
C-shaped LED tail lamps are in line with the DRLs at the front.
Turn-indicators and reversing lamps get diamond-shaped detailing. It's present on the sides as well.
Chunky light strip connects the tail-lamps. Tailgate now houses the Mahindra twin peaks logo and "XUV 3XO" lettering with the variant badging on the right. Tailgate has multiple creases in line with the tail lamps.
The bumper houses reflectors and brushed silver inserts. There's also a faux silver skid plate.

2024 Mahindra XUV 3XO Interior Review
Interiors are similar to the outgoing XUV300. Yes, there are some feature additions and a few design changes, but all in all, the cabin looks familiar. You have a dual-tone black and white interior colour theme and some good quality materials have been used.
Steering wheel is identical in design to the XUV300, but now gets glossy black inserts. This is a nice and well-sized steering, although I was hoping that the flat-bottom unit from the XUV400 and XUV700 would make its way here.
The usual set of steering-mounted controls. Music and telephony controls are on the left spoke, while MID and adaptive cruise control buttons are placed on the right spoke.
New in the XUV 3XO is this 10.25-inch digital instrument cluster. An interesting feature here is that, in the tachometer and speedometer, only the area near the needles is illuminated. Some may like this, but we prefer seeing the entire gauge.
Selected drive mode is displayed on the MID. Instrument cluster theme changes according the drive mode.
Onboard navigation can be displayed on the MID. Different information like fuel economy, range, TPMS, and ADAS options can be checked as well.
Reflection on the instrument cluster under direct sunlight is horrible.
The XUV 3XO gets a Blind View Monitor that is activated when you switch on the indicator. Worth mentioning that the stock indicator tone is very loud and annoying. You can change the tone and volume through the MID.
Switches for the hill descent control, idling start / stop system and parking sensor warning off are placed on the RHS.
New engine start / stop button gets a silver ring around it.
Doorpad design is similar to the outgoing car. Upper portion now gets a leatherette insert with contrast white stitching.
Power window console layout remains the same, but it's now finished in piano black.
Seats have been carried over, but get new detailing on the leatherette upholstery. No electric adjustment here. You still have to manually adjust the seats. Overall, the seat comfort is good, but they feel a bit snug even for an average-sized individual. Heavier folk might find them uncomfortable.
A closer look at the perforated leatherette upholstery. No ventilated seats in the XUV 3XO.
You get a well-sized dead pedal with the automatic variant. It's set at a comfortable angle. The brake pedal and the accelerator pedal get metallic treatment. In fact, these are available as an accessory in the XUV700 as well and can be slipped onto the stock pedals.
ORVM is wide enough and provides a good view of the action behind. ORVM along with the A-pillar creates a blind spot on the RHS.
IRVM covers the entire rear windshield. However, due to the windshield's small size, you're better off using the 360-degree view system while reversing.
Also, now you get a frameless auto-dimming IRVM.
Centre fascia is very similar to what we've seen in the XUV400 with a tablet-like touchscreen head-unit on the top. Overall quality of the switches is good and they feel well-built.
New in the XUV 3XO is this 10.25-inch touchscreen that also gets quick access buttons below. The infotainment gets wireless Android Auto and Apple CarPlay connectivity.
Display is crisp and has good contrast. There's very little lag while operating the touchscreen. You get a nice 360-degree view on the screen and you can swipe to change the angles as well. You get additional options by swiping up or down from the home screen.
The XUV 3XO comes equipped with a 7-speaker Harman Kardon sound system with a 380W amplifier and a subwoofer. You get different options to play around with the listening experience. There's also a 'ClariFi' option to enhance the sound quality of compressed audio files. There's also a bass enhancer and VNC++ option that automatically adjusts the loudness to maintain tonal balance against the road noise. The overall sound quality is impressive and most owners will be happy with the setup.
Horizontal AC vents are placed below the touchscreen. Compared to the quality of materials in the cabin, the vents felt a bit flimsy and not very good quality. In the console below the vents, you have buttons for the rear defogger, passenger airbag switch, traction control button, and drive mode button. These slim buttons feel very outdated and Mahindra should've used conventional switches here. Below you have two knobs for controlling the temperature of the dual-zone climate control with a TFT screen in the middle.
Fan speed and other A/C controls are placed below.
You get a regular USB port and a 65W Type-C USB charging port that's good enough to charge even your laptop.
There's also a wireless charging pad below with the Mahindra logo.
New in the XUV 3XO is the 3rd-gen Aisin 6-speed torque converter automatic gearbox. The transmission mode selector looks good.
There are two cupholders which seem a bit shallow for tall cups and an electronic parking brake with auto-hold.
Sleek centre armrest isn't adjustable for height, nor does it slide forward.
Small storage box underneath. The space has been reduced compared to the the first XUV300. Possibly due to the addition of rear A/C vents.
Passenger side of the dashboard gets a leatherette insert on the top part with contrast white stitching which feels premium. Piano black insert below also gets the diamond detailing that we've seen in some other places.
Glovebox is illuminated and cooled. Lid has a damped opening action.
You no longer get a vanity mirror on the driver's sunvisor.
Big sunroof lets plenty of light into the cabin. Lower variants get a smaller sunroof.
Roof bezel houses the switches for the sunroof and white LED reading lights. Press the button and they come on gently. Very cool! One problem with the buttons is that the marking on them is not legible as you can see in this picture. The diamond detailing makes its way here too. Sunroof operation isn't one-touch, but you have to keep the button pressed till it opens or closes fully.
Rear doorpad carries the same theme as the front. Surprisingly, the top portion also gets the leatherette insert which feels premium.
Rear bench is wide enough to accommodate 3 people. All 3 occupants get 3-point seatbelts and adjustable headrests.
At 5'10", I had just about enough legroom behind my driving position. Knee room is comparable to competitors like the Tata Nexon and Maruti Brezza. Backrest is set at a comfortable angle and centre armrest is at a nice height. There's space under the front seat for passengers to tuck their feet into.
Centre armrest gets two cupholders.
White LED reading lamps at the rear come on gently when switched on.
Rear passengers get A/C vents to keep cool.
There's a Type-C USB charger along with a mobile phone holder below.
At the bottom, there is a 12V socket.
There was some discussion on the forum regarding an increase in the boot space. Well, Mahindra has lowered the floor by using a 135/90 R16 space saver spare tyre instead of a full-size spare which might have added some litres to the number. However, it's still a small boot. Boot space according to the brochure is 364 litres, but that's as per the ISO V215 measuring method and the XUV 3XO's boot space is calculated from the boot floor to the roof. For reference, the 2023 Tata Nexon's boot space is 382 litres (as per ISO V215). If calculated from the boot floor to the top part of the backrest, the XUV 3XO's boot space is 295 litres (as per ISO V211). Note that you don't get a parcel tray.
Tools are neatly arranged in a Styrofoam casing kept within the 16-inch space-saver spare wheel.
Subwoofer is placed on the right along with a white LED boot light. Boot gets baggage hooks on both sides.

Driving the Mahindra XUV 3XO 1.2L Turbo-Petrol GDi 6-speed AT
1.2-litre turbo-petrol engine with gasoline direct injection (GDi) produces 129 BHP @ 5,000 rpm and 230 Nm @ 1,500-3,750 rpm. It is mated to a 6-speed automatic transmission.
Mahindra introduced the 1.2-litre turbo-petrol GDi engine back in 2022 with the XUV300 TurboSport Series. The engine was available only with a 6-speed MT and was pitted as a performance variant which, in a way, it was. It was the fastest turbo-petrol car in its segment, but it didn't have a proper automatic gearbox. With the XUV 3XO, Mahindra has rectified that by offering the 3rd-generation 6-speed Aisin-sourced automatic transmission for its turbo-petrol engines.
The 3-cylinder turbo-petrol engine is an all-aluminium unit which has the exhaust manifold integrated into the cylinder head. The GDI system has an injection pressure of up to 250 bar and the engine also has an over-boost function that gives it a momentary peak torque of 250 Nm.
Driving the XUV 3XO petrol AT is a smooth experience. This 1.2-litre turbo-petrol GDi engine is a very likeable motor and packs a serious punch. Direct comparisons will be drawn to the 109 BHP turbo-petrol MPFI engine and the GDi unit is more linear with its power delivery and also packs more punch. The petrol engine with the 6-speed AT is smooth and city-friendly. Off the line, the throttle response is linear and at low speeds, the turbo lag is masked well by the automatic transmission. The driveability at low speeds is good and you'll appreciate it even more while driving in bumper-to-bumper traffic. With a light foot on the accelerator, you can navigate through city traffic effortlessly without any unnecessary spikes in power delivery. We'd recommend being in the Zip (Eco) mode for a smoother driving experience. As mentioned earlier, the turbo-petrol packs a punch and has a strong mid-range. Power comes in strong at just above 1,500 rpm and you can make those quick overtakes in the city.
Out on the open road is where you can flex your right leg for the XUV 3XO to stretch its legs. With 129 BHP on tap, you will reach the 100 or 120 km/h mark without even realising it. There's enough power available for overtaking with ease and covering good ground quickly. The engine's marked redline is 5,500 rpm which is low, but something that's not uncommon with turbo-petrols. This is not a high-revving engine and in kickdown mode, you will see the shifts happening at ~5,000 rpm. The engine is also relaxed when cruising at highway speeds and you will see it spin at 1,900 rpm at 100 km/h and 2,200 rpm at 120 km/h in the 6th gear.
As we have seen in the past with Aisin gearboxes, the 6-speed torque converter unit in the XUV 3XO is also butter-smooth in its operation. The shifts are barely noticeable while driving in the city with a light foot. You'll have to pay attention to the change in engine noise to pinpoint when the shifts happen. This isn't a fast-shifting gearbox, but it's not slow either. Response times are acceptable for day-to-day driving and even when driving spiritedly, the gearbox manages to keep up well. In certain situations, when driving hard, you might feel that the gearbox is getting confused, but those instances are few. The gearbox does a satisfactory job for the most part. In the city, the gearbox feels eager to drop down gears when off the throttle to make sure that the rpm doesn't drop too low and the engine stays in the power band. There's a manual mode, but it's not very intuitive and most owners would prefer letting the electronics do the shifting for them. Unfortunately, there are no paddle shifters which some enthusiasts would love to have.

Drive Mode
Like some of the other Mahindra cars, you have 3 driving modes called as Zip, Zap and Zoom (hilarious name selection)-
Zip Mode: This is essentially the Eco driving mode in which throttle response is dulled. You can use this mode while driving in the city as it makes the experience smoother. On the highway, you can use this mode for cruising and some overtakes as well. But if you want to overtake quickly, you'll be better off switching to other modes.
Zap Mode: This is the Normal mode. It strikes a perfect balance between the other two modes and you can use it for your daily driving in the city as well as on the highways.
Zoom Mode: When you're in the mood for some spirited driving, you should switch to this Zoom mode. Throttle response is the sharpest in this mode and the car feels very eager to your inputs. The steering weighs up in this mode, but not as much as enthusiasts would prefer. Using this mode in the city isn't advisable as the driving experience is too jerky.

Noise, Vibration & Harshness (NVH)
Mahindra has added panel damping to improve the NVH. They claim that with the improvements in the NVH package, the XUV 3XO's cabin will be as quiet as the XUV700's cabin. The engine is quiet at idle and you don't feel any vibrations in the cabin. On the move, the wind noise is well controlled. Road noise starts to creep into the cabin at 100 km/h. The audio system comes with a feature called as VNC++ that automatically adjusts the loudness to maintain tonal balance against the road noise.

Mileage & Fuel Economy
The Mahindra XUV 3XO comes equipped with Zip driving mode (Eco) and also an idling start / stop system that helps improve fuel efficiency. The claimed fuel economy of the 1.2-litre turbo-petrol GDi engine with the 6-speed MT and 6-speed AT is 20.1 km/l and 18.2 km/l, respectively. The other turbo-petrol engine with 109 BHP (MPFI) has a claimed fuel economy of 18.89 km/l with MT and 17.96 with AT. The 1.5-litre diesel engine has a fuel economy of 20.6 km/l with the MT and 21.2 km/l with the AMT.

Suspension & Ride Comfort
The XUV 3XO uses an independent MacPherson strut suspension at the front and a semi-independent twist beam suspension at the rear. There are some changes compared to the XUV300. You get a rebound stopper in the top strut mount to reduce the impact forces. At the rear, the span between the springs is the highest in the segment (1,108 mm) which improves the roll stability. Importantly, the dampers now get Mahindra's MTV-CL technology which stands for Multi-Tune Valve with Concentric Land. Essentially, it fine tunes the damping force by controlling the fluid through piston valves.
At low speeds, the ride quality is compliant and mature. There is an underlying stiffness to the ride, but it's not uncomfortable by any means. The 17-inch rims add to this. Small bumps are absorbed well and the suspension does its work quietly. Larger potholes do register themselves in the cabin sharply. Like most Mahindra cars, the setup also feels rugged and abuse-friendly. You can manage to get away with carrying some extra speed over a rough patch or a speed breaker. Overall the ride is compliant and most owners will be happy with the XUV 3XO's suspension setup.

Handling & Dynamics
A unique aspect of the XUV 3XO is its footprint. It has a long wheelbase and the front & rear tracks are wide too. This gives the XUV 3XO a very stable stance and that is very much evident in the handling of the car. At highway speeds, the ride improves and the car is stable with very little vertical movement. Expansion joints and minor undulations do not make it unstable and passengers are comfortable even in the rear seat.
Get into the twisty bits and you will appreciate the handling characteristics of this chassis. The car remains composed in slow and fast corners. Even changing directions from one corner to another is a smooth affair and you won't have any scary surprises. The handling is very predictable and you can carry a good amount of speed into corners without feeling nervous. The 215/55 Goodyear Assurance tyres on our test car provided a good grip.

Steering
The Mahindra XUV 3XO's steering is one of the biggest drawbacks in an otherwise capable dynamics package. It was a weak link with the pre-facelift car and it remains the same on this one. The steering is too vague for any kind of feedback and feels dead in the centre. It almost feels like an arcade steering. It weighs up as you gain speed and in Zoom mode, but it still isn't enough. When pushing the car on twisty roads, you will want more feedback when turning into a corner. On the flip side, the steering is very light and easy to use in the city and while parking.

Braking
All variants of the XUV300 come with all-wheel disc brakes, ABS + EBD. Mahindra has also added the same ESP tech (ESP 9.3) from the XUV700 in the XUV 3XO. Emergency braking manoeuvres are handled well by the car and it comes to a stop without any drama. They perform well in day-to-day driving conditions. That being said, the bite is quite sharp. We would’ve liked the pedal to be a little more progressive.
Disclaimer: Mahindra invited Team-BHP for the XUV 3XO test drive. They covered all the travel expenses for this driving event.

Dimensions
There have been some slight changes in the car's dimensions. The old XUV300 measured 3995mm in length, 1821mm in width, and 1627mm in height, whereas the new XUV 3XO's dimensions are 3990mm in length, 1821mm in width, and 1641mm in height. Additionally, the new 3XO has a ground clearance of 201mm, which is more than the old XUV300's 180mm, and the new 3XO offers a larger boot space of 364 litres compared to the old XUV300's 257 litres.

Exterior Changes Front
Mahindra is offering the XUV 3XO with a redesigned front end. It gets five chrome slats and the new Mahindra logo. You can also see the new curved-shaped LED DRLs and updated headlights. Its tweaked bumper sports a front camera and radar for ADAS.

Exterior Changes Rear
Changes have taken place at the back as well. The biggest change is the connected LED tail lights. It also gets a new bumper.

Exterior ChangesSide
The new version of the SUV retains the original boxy silhouette. The only change in the side profile of the car is the introduction of freshly designed 17-inch alloy wheels.

New Colour Options
The XUV 3XO has 8 dual-tone options paired with either Galvano Grey or Stealth Black, along with 8 normal plain colour schemes.
Tango Red, Citrine Yellow, Deep Forest, Dune Beige, Nebula Blue, Everest White, Galaxy Grey, Stealth Black and Interior Changes

Dashboard and Cabin
The interior has undergone a major upgrade, featuring a more premium and modern design. The cabin now boasts a brighter ambience, which varies depending on the variant. Additionally, the automatic transmission (AT) model has a new gear lever. While the cabin has been updated with new features and screens, the seats and doors remain unchanged with only minor upholstery modifications.
New Instrument Cluster
The XUV 3XO features a brand-new 10.25-inch fully digital driver's display, offering a sharper and clearer appearance compared to the older driver's display. An impressive feature is that it allows your navigation to be displayed on the driver's display as well.
New Infotainment System
The smaller and outdated 7-inch touchscreen unit has been replaced with a larger 10.25-inch screen equipped with wireless Android Auto and Apple CarPlay compatibility.
New Features
10.25” High Definition Configurable Digital Instrument Cluster with Full Map View
10.25” High Definition Infotainment System with 7-speaker Harman Kardon audio system
Panoramic Sunroof (Skyroof)
Dual-zone Climate Control
Level 2-ADAS
Electronic Parking Brake

Safety
The old XUV300 was already a 5-star rated safe car, and the new one has stepped up the game with level 2 ADAS, 360-degree camera, 6 airbags, 3-point seat belts for all seats, all-disc brakes, and electronic stability control.

Engine Options
The XUV 3XO offers a diverse range of powertrains. Entry-level variants are powered by a 111 HP, 1.2-litre turbo-petrol engine, while higher-spec models feature a 131 HP, 1.2-litre direct injection turbo-petrol unit. Additionally, a 117 HP, 1.5-litre diesel engine is available across nearly all variants. Transmission choices include manual and automatic options, including the new AISIN 6-speed automatic transmission for the mStallion engine.