Mahindra BE 6e Review
Mahindra BE 6e Pros
Looks like something that’s straight out of the future. Has a very unique design inside out. Surely a head-turner
Powerful motor sends 282 BHP to the rear wheels (0-100 km/h in 6.7 seconds)!
Low centre of gravity, stiff suspension and connected steering offer a great handling package
79 kWh battery pack should comfortably offer 450 - 500 km real-world range. This is enough even for road-tripping with the family
Lifetime warranty on the battery is a big assurance for EV owners
455-litre boot and the 45-litre frunk are good enough for family holiday luggage
Fully loaded with a bunch of unique features like interactive rear LED strip, augmented reality integrated head-up display, infinity roof with interactive lights, 16-speaker Harman Kardon system with Dolby Atmos, selfie camera, UV filtration glass, auto-park with remote car control and many more
Safety features include Level 2+ ADAS, 7 airbags, fatigue alert system, all-wheel disc brakes, ESP, front parking sensors, 360-degree camera, hill hold, hill descent, TPMS, etc.

Mahindra BE 6e Cons
Uncomfortable rear seat experience. High floor, difficult ingress and egress and limited headroom (due to the sloping roofline)
Stiff suspension setup means you feel the bad roads. Ride is liveable, but not for someone looking for a comfortable suspension
Concept car-like styling may not be to everyone’s liking. Will surely divide opinions
Rearward visibility is poor, as is the case with most Coupe-SUVs
Some cabin plastics don't feel premium in an otherwise loaded SUV. Excessive piano black in the cabin isn't to my tastes and makes it very difficult to keep scratch-free
This car is extremely complex - we have concerns over niggles & bugs in a freshly baked Mahindra, especially the early batches
Mahindra's after-sales service is a hit or miss. Remains a gamble. Wondering how many of them will be able to handle such a complicated car too
Missing features like a full-size spare tyre (you get a skinny 135 mm space saver which will cap your cruising speed to 80 km/h), cooled glovebox, rear sunshade and no physical buttons for HVAC controls

Introduction
It’s safe to say that no one expected Mahindra to build a car that was so close to the concept model. The car that you see here, is called the BE 6e. It is based on the INGLO platform. This is a born electric (BE) vehicle, which means that it has been developed from the ground up as an EV. This is really important as it gives the designers a clean slate to explore all possibilities and Mahindra’s designers sure seem to have gone all out with the design of the BE 6e. The car looks radical and futuristic and shares its underpinnings with the XEV 9e. The big difference is the area of focus. While the XEV 9e is comfort-oriented, the BE 6e is all about sportiness and agility. Mahindra has done a good job of differentiating the two cars. If you’re wondering about the size, the bigger XEV 9e is roughly the size of an XUV700 / Tata Safari while the BE 6e is smaller and comparable to the Hyundai Creta or the Tata Curvv.
Just like the bigger 9e, the BE 6e gets 2 battery options - 79 kWh and 59 kWh. The bigger 79 kWh battery pack is mated to a 282 BHP motor and the smaller 59 kWh battery pack is mated to a 228 BHP motor. The motor is mounted on the rear axle and powers the rear wheels only. Enthusiasts don’t relate to EVs as fun vehicles. However, given the lack of affordable rear wheel drive cars in our market, this is an EV that might just attract some of the enthusiasts. Keeping the EV vs ICE bit aside, this car genuinely feels to have been designed around the driver. We got to spend some time with it, so here are our initial observations.
Since the BE 6e shares its platform with the XEV 9e, there are some similarities between the two cars which you might see in the review as well. To check out the Mahindra XEV 9e review, click here.

Mahindra BE 6e Price & Brochure
Mahindra has announced the introductory starting price of the BE 6e - Rs. 18.90 lakh (ex-showroom). More details on the pricing will be available when bookings open sometime in January 2025 and deliveries are expected to commence by the end of February or March. The starting price for this ‘Pack 1’ variant is for the smaller 59 kWh battery pack and is pretty attractive. Some of the features included in the Pack 1 are a 228 BHP motor powering the rear wheels, one pedal drive, Bi-LED auto headlamps, LED tail-lamps, rain-sensing wipers, 6 airbags, wireless Android Auto and Apple CarPlay, 5G connectivity, rear parking sensors with camera, connected car features and more. The brochure and more details will be revealed closer to the launch.

Mahindra BE 6e Exterior Review
Very squarish front end with aggressive styling elements. You get C-shaped LED DRLs along with a big piano black element in the middle. There is a lot of piano black used on the exterior of the car and while it may look good in pictures, it will be very hard to maintain. Faux skid plate at the bottom looks out of place.
Just like the front, the rear also has plenty of design elements. As you might have noticed, the car is pretty wide. Also, notice how the tyres are all the way to the edges (in the above picture as well). The wide front and rear track give the car a planted stance and also helps in the dynamics (more on this later).
As mentioned earlier, there is a lot of piano black used. You’ll see it on the wheel arches as well as over the running board. The wheelbase is 2,775 mm and the unladen ground clearance is rated at 207 mm. The battery on the other hand has a clearance of 222 mm for those concerned about scraping over tall speed breakers.
While you may or may not like the concept car-like design, you have to admit that there is nothing that looks like the BE 6e on the road currently. It looks outlandish with so many design elements and wide haunches, but it sure attracts a lot of attention on the road. The BE 6e measures 4,371 mm in length, 1,907 mm in width and 1,627 mm in height.
With all its body creases, the BE 6e is well-built and feels solid on the outside. The paint quality is satisfactory. Our test car was finished in the Everest White Satin shade.
Big C-shaped LED DRLs surround the tiny LED headlamps in the middle. LED fog lamp has been placed at the bottom.
BE’ logo at the front is illuminated. As you can see, the bonnet is split in the middle. That is because it has an aero scoop in it.
Under the bonnet, you have a 45-litre frunk. It’s not very big, but good enough to keep your portable charging cable and some other items.
A healthy amount of underbody protection at the front.
The ORVMs have a sleek design and are integrated with turn indicators and camera for the 360-degree view system.
While 19-inch wheels are standard, you can opt for 20-inch wheels as well. They’re shod with 245/55 section Goodyear ElectricDrive tyres and provide good grip. The lower variant gets 18-inch steel wheels with aero inserts.
All-wheel disc brakes are standard. I like this simple alloy wheel design. Goes well with the overall car’s design.
You get a nice ribbed design on the running board. Also, notice the massive piano black parts above the running board.
Mahindra will most likely have 3 variants which will be termed as packs. This is fully loaded Pack Three. We’ll have more details closer to the launch.
Flush door handles open electrically. You can also open the car using an NFC card.
Rear door handle is concealed in the window area.
Big panoramic glass roof is fixed.
More aerodynamic elements at the back. You get this scooped-out twin spoiler design at the end of the roof.
You also get the stick-on lip spoiler on the boot.
Tailgate has a clean design with the new Mahindra electric logo in the middle and the BE 6e name on the side. Mahindra should’ve named the car better. BE 6e or “Be Sexy” isn’t something you want to call a car.
There is a party trick feature called Groove Me in which all the lights and the roof lights get synced with the music that you are playing. The LED bar in the middle of the tail lamps also displays sound bars for the music.
Underbody protection extends all the way to the back.
Here’s the colours of BE 6e Firestorm Orange, Desert Myst and finally in the Tango Red paint option.

Mahindra BE 6e Interior Review
Step inside the BE 6e and you are greeted by this crazy-looking cabin. Just like the exterior, the interior is radical and very concept car-like. You have a halo in the middle that gives the driver a cockpit-like feel. There are various airplane-inspired design elements in the cabin. Mahindra has used some recycled materials in the cabin to promote sustainability. IMO, while some people might like this driver-focused cabin design, it’s not for everyone.
Two spoke flat top and bottom steering wheel is nice to hold and looks sporty. As we saw in the XEV 9e, the hornpad extends all the way to the edges, which is why it’s not very easy to hold the steering in the '9 and 3' position. The steering is adjustable for height and reach.
On the left spoke you have controls for the infotainment and on the right, you have the ADAS and MID controls. There are two buttons on the top of the two spokes that adjust the regen levels. The button on the bottom left is to activate one pedal drive and the one on the right is to activate the boost function.
Wiper controls are on the left stalk and headlamp and indicator controls are on the right stalk.
12.3-inch MID is very clear and has very cool graphics as well. You get a range display on the left and the power usage display on the right.
Among the different displays, you have the ADAS display as well which shows the cars and also various objects on the road.
You also get a head-up display which is integrated with blind spot monitoring and has Augmented-reality navigation. One thing we observed was that as long as there is little information, the display doesn’t get distorted. We would suggest having minimum information for a crisp display.
You have buttons on the right-hand side for various vehicle functions.
The footwell has plenty of room. The aluminium pedals are well spaced out and the dead pedal is wide. Since the floor is high and you’re seated low, this pedal position is a bit upright which can get uncomfortable over long journeys. In comparison, the XEV 9e had a more relaxed pedal position.
All black doorpad can hold 1-litre bottle and some other knick-knacks.
You get a new window and mirror control panel. The buttons are easy to use and feel durable. The piano black, however, will attract scratches and fingerprints.
Yes, you get a pull strap to open the door. Very much like the Porsche GT3RS. The lock / unlock latch is placed next to it.
Getting in and out of front seats isn’t very easy. The car isn’t very tall and the floor is high as well. This means that you have to bend down and get into the front seat. Getting out also isn’t very easy. The front seats are narrow but have good side support. The under-thigh support could’ve been better though. Front seats are ventilated and the driver seat gets memory function along with manual lumbar adjustment.
A closer look at the fabric + leatherette upholstery and unique headrest design.
12.3-inch infotainment unit is paired with a 16-speaker Harman Kardon sound system with Dolby Atmos. Sound quality is excellent and there are various presets and sound experiences you can choose from. The infotainment packs a lot of information and features. The screen is responsive, has a crisp display and doesn’t have any lag.
Here’s a look at the three driving modes.
There are plenty of options on the screen and you can adjust a lot of vehicle settings as well. Unfortunately, like many modern cars, the A/C controls are integrated into the touchscreen and you don’t have physical buttons. In the A/C settings, you have various presets for different conditions like camping or when you have a pet inside the car. You can also schedule the climate control for various charging times.
The BE 6e also has an inbuilt dashcam that records footage from all the cameras of the 360-degree view system and even the camera inside the cabin. The 360-degree view camera display has good resolution and is very useful while parking. However, I found the 3D mode was a bit slow and was laggy.
Two USB Type-C ports charging ports are placed below.
You get 2 wireless charging pads for front passengers and…
a single cupholder. The front passenger doesn’t get a cupholder.
A look at the aeroplane cockpit-inspired transmission mode selector. It’s nice to hold and looks pretty fancy, but it doesn’t feel very different to use. Since there is no release button on the lever, when shifting from P, you first have to go into Neutral and then into D. Note that the entire console is finished in piano black and the start-stop button is integrated into it.
Park button is on the side of the selector. The ‘+’ and ‘–‘ buttons adjust the regen levels.
Below, you have a round knob and buttons around it to control functions on the touchscreen - very much like in BMW cars. Next to it, you have a slot on the centre console to place the key.
Front passengers get a wide armrest that doesn’t slide nor is adjustable for height.
Under it, there is a deep storage bin.
You get an open storage area under the centre console.
Thanks to the coupe roofline and tiny windshield, the rearward visibility is very poor. You will have to depend on the reversing camera.
View through the IRVM is also very limited. If there are 3 people sitting at the back, your view is completely blocked.
Panoramic glass roof has a pattern and you get interactive lights in it.
Passenger side of the dashboard has soft-touch material on top and the A/C vents are concealed in the design below.
Glovebox is average-sized and can hold some items other than just documents.
Even the roof console is finished in piano black. Here as well you can see cockpit-inspired buttons for door open lights, tailgate opening, hazard lights, park assist and selfie camera.
Very simple and basic-looking rear seat compared to the XEV 9e. The width of the cabin is enough to seat 3 adults. All three passengers get 3-point seatbelts and adjustable headrests.
As mentioned earlier, getting in and out of the car is not very easy. The same applies to the rear seat as well. The floor is high and with the sloping roofline, you have to be careful about your head and get in the seat. The backrest angle is comfortable and not very upright. The window area is limited and some people might find this to be claustrophobic.
With the front seat adjusted to my driving position, there is good knee room, but the headroom is tight (I’m 5’10” tall). The high floor results in a knees-up sitting position as you can see in the picture. The seatbase is also not as long as in the XEV 9e, so the under-thigh support is less. For comparison's sake, here’s me in the XEV 9e (reference image).
The centre armrest is set at a nice height and gets 2 cupholders.
Funky design for the rear A/C vents! The air volume control is on the side.
You get a slot below to keep your phone.
USB Type-C charging point has been placed on the side of front seat. You also get a slot to mount an optional screen for rear seat entertainment.
You get a 455-litre boot (measured as per VDA-ISO V211). The loading lip is high and you have to lift your luggage higher to keep your bags inside the boot.
You can fold down the rear seats for additional cargo space.
Under the boot floor, you have an 18-inch space saver (T135/80 R18) with a Styrofoam casing that holds all the tools. There is also some additional space where you can keep the portable charging cable.
12V socket has been placed in the boot. Also, note the LED boot lamp.

Driving the Mahindra BE 6e
Underpinning the BE 6e is the same platform as the XEV 9e. So, you have 2 battery options available - 59 kWh and 79 kWh. Mahindra is currently using the battery packs with blade cells from BYD. They are assembled in India at the Chakan plant in Pune. The battery has a cell-to-pack structure which means there is no module in the pack. This helps pack more cells in the given space. The LFP battery has an energy density of 141.5 Wh/kg. Mahindra is offering a lifetime warranty on the battery pack which is applicable for the first owner of the vehicle (private registration). In case there is an ownership transfer, the warranty on the battery will be 10 years or 200,000 km from the vehicle delivery date.
Talking about the powertrain, the motor (79 kWh variant) produces 282 BHP and 380 Nm. It has 3 components packed into 1, namely the motor, transmission and charger (AC-DC converter). The motor sits on the rear axle and powers the rear wheels only. The 0-100 km/h acceleration time is claimed to be 6.7 seconds which is a tenth of a second faster than the XEV 9e.
We’ve established that the BE 6e is the more driver-focused of the two cars, so let’s talk about how it drives. Using the aeroplane cockpit-inspired transmission mode selector, shift to D and you get off the line smoothly. The car starts in ‘Everyday’ mode as default which gives you a mix of power and comfort. The car feels light on its feet and agile while driving around in the city. You can keep up with the traffic easily and the motor’s instant torque will help you quickly overtake slow-moving traffic. It doesn’t feel jerky when going on and off the throttle and you can drive this car smoothly in the city. If you want a smoother driver, switch to Range mode which dulls the throttle response a bit. It doesn’t mean that the Range mode is underpowered by any means. There’s enough power on tap even in the Range mode.
Get out of the city and onto the highways and you can enjoy the performance on offer. There’s 282 BHP on tap that will take you from 0-100 km/h in just 6.7 seconds. That is quick for sure and you will leave some people startled at traffic signals when you launch the car. There is also a boost function which can be activated with a button on the steering wheel. This function gives you 10 seconds of additional power for a faster launch. The power delivery is very linear and once you get used to the throttle response, you can modulate it as required. To further fine-tune your driving experience, you can also adjust the regen mode to replicate engine braking as per your liking. With a predictable pedal response and power delivery, you can have fun while pushing the BE 6e around corners.
EVs are known to have a weak top-end since the motor rpms are limited to conserve the battery. That’s why you will see most EVs have their top-speed limited. Well, the Mahindra BE 6e has a top speed of 202 km/h which is a lot for an EV. On a drive on the high-speed track at the Mahindra facility, the car managed to touch 200 km/h. The progress from 150 km/h to 200 km/h was obviously slow, but it was faster than the bigger and heavier XEV 9e.
On occasions when you have to cruise on the highway, the car feels very relaxed. Overtaking is also not an issue. With the amount of power on tap, you can manage to overtake cars when cruising at 80 km/h or 100 km/h. You don’t even need to switch to Race mode. You can make almost all overtakes in either the Range mode or the Everyday mode. You can also engage adaptive cruise control on the highways and let ADAS do its work. The BE 6e and the XEV 9e are equipped with ADAS Level 2+ which has 5 radars and one camera. Mahindra claims that it can detect cows, pedestrians, barricades and different types of vehicles and that it has been tuned for the complexities of Indian road conditions.

Drive Mode
There are 3 driving modes to choose from. There’s some difference between these modes as they alter the accelerator pedal response and also the steering weight.
Range Mode : This is the mode when you want to extract maximum range or even want to enjoy a smooth drive. You won’t feel that the car is lacking power in this mode. It has enough grunt to keep up with the traffic and make those quick overtakes. We found this mode to be the best for driving in the city.
Everyday Mode : This is the default mode to drive in and it works well in the city as well as on the highway. It provides a good balance between power and economy. The throttle response is a bit sharper than the Range mode.
Race Mode : The throttle response gets noticeably sharper in this mode and the car feels ready to fly. The power delivery is still pretty linear which is a good thing. You won’t find this mode to be too jerky and with smooth throttle inputs, you can drive around comfortably in this mode as well. The steering gets noticeably heavier in this mode. It's good as the heft is something enthusiasts will appreciate.
Here’s a short clip of drive modes and some other features of the battery.

Regenerative Braking
Mahindra has covered all the bases with regenerative braking. There are 3 levels of regeneration that can be adjusted via the buttons on the steering wheel. I found Level 1 to be the most comfortable with very IC engine-like engine braking. Level 2 was also okay, but in the maximum level of regeneration, there is a noticeable jerk on lift-off. There is a Level 0 as well where the car just keeps rolling when you lift off the accelerator. If you are a fan of one-pedal driving, Mahindra has integrated it with the BE 6e. There’s a button on the steering wheel to engage "One-Pedal Drive". Once engaged, the regeneration level is automatically cranked up to Level 3.

Noise, Vibration & Harshness (NVH)
EVs are inherently silent, which is why, all the other aspects like wind noise and tyre noise get amplified inside the cabin. Mahindra has installed acoustic and UV protective windows and windshields to keep the noise levels down. On normal roads, wind noise starts creeping in at 90 km/h. The Goodyear ElectricDrive tyres have foam inside them to reduce tyre noise and that works. Overall, the noise inside the cabin is well-controlled.

Range
The BE 6e with the 79 kWh battery pack has an ARAI-certified range of 682 km and the WLTP in-house tested range is 550 km. Mahindra has also claimed to have done real-world driving range tests in different metros across the country. According to the results across different cities, they got an average of 500 km real-world range with A/C ON. We’ll wait for some ownership reviews for more real-world range figures.

Charging
The INGLO platform on which the BE 6e and the XEV 9e are based, allows 2C fast charging. The 79 kWh battery pack can charge from 20-80% in just 20 minutes using a 175 kW DC fast charger. As 175 kW DC fast chargers aren’t very common, here are charging times for some more common chargers for charging from 5–80% - 27 minutes for 150 kW, 45 minutes for 90 kW and 65 minutes for 60 kW.
You can also use an A/C wall charger which is available in 2 options – 11 kW and 7.2 kW. The 79 kWh battery pack charges from 0-100% in 8 hours using an 11 kW charger and in 11.7 hours using a 7.2 kW charger.
Charging port is placed on the rear left quarter panel, just above the wheel. It also has a battery status indicator.

Suspension & Ride Comfort
The Mahindra BE 6e gets the same suspension setup as the XEV 9e. You have McPherson struts at the front and a 5-link independent suspension at the rear. It also gets semi-active dampers on all 4 wheels. In essence, there are displacement sensors at each wheel and an IMU Sensor (Inertial Measurement Unit) that calculates in real-time, the variation in road conditions and adjusts the damping force accordingly. There is a solenoid valve at the bottom that controls the flow of oil in the damper. The system calculates the damping force based on various inputs like vehicle speed, wheel displacement, body movement, brake and steering and speed breaker inputs.
Right off the bat, you will notice that this is a suspension tune that focuses on handling. There is a stark difference in the ride quality of the bigger XEV 9e and the BE 6e. While driving at city speeds, small potholes and bumps register themselves in the cabin. The good thing is that it has the Mahindra DNA and the suspension feels sturdy. You can go over potholes without having to worry about breaking something. Large potholes are felt in the cabin sharply, so best to be careful over these. The suspension setup is on the firmer side and due to the heavy battery pack in the floor, it feels even stiffer. The chassis is tight and you get noticeable side-to-side movement in the cabin when driving over bad patches of road. The big 19-inch wheels also contribute to the stiffness of the ride. Even in the front passenger seat or in the back seat, you can always feel the road and there is always some movement which makes the ride feel busy.

Handling & Dynamics
If you look at the stance of the car you will notice that it has very short overhangs. Moreover, it is quite wide as well which gives the car a wide front and rear track. Basically, the 4 wheels are very close to the 4 edges of the car which gives it a very wide and stable footprint. Just looking at it you can tell that it has a very stable stance. It’s not very high and given the heavy battery pack in the floor, the centre of gravity is also low. All these factors in theory should contribute positively to the handling characteristics of the BE 6e and they definitely do. At high speeds, the car feels well-planted and stable with very little vertical movement. On the highway, there is no bounciness and the car doesn’t feel nervous. As a driver, you will enjoy being behind the wheel for its dynamics.
If you’re used to driving cars with a heavier front end, you will need to recalibrate yourself slightly. The turn-in is sharp and it holds the line very well. If you get too enthusiastic on the exit of a corner, you will feel the rear wanting to step out, but then traction control reigns you in. The weight distribution makes it fun to drive around corners. It also helps in chicanes where you have to change direction quickly and even during lane changes. This is a very nice handling package, which I’m sure, a lot of the enthusiasts will enjoy.

Steering
Mahindra has equipped the steering system with a Variable Gear Ratio (VGR). The steering rack has different pitches, which means that the feel is different in the middle as compared to the end lock. In terms of feel, it is very direct and offers good feedback. There is good heft to the steering wheel in Race mode which allows you to attack corners more confidently. The steering feels connected and not vague like most EPS units. It is light at city speeds and in Everyday or Range modes. It weighs up adequately at high speeds. The BE 6e has a turning circle of 10 meters. Thanks to the ADAS level 2+, the steering system also has some added functions for auto park assist and lane keep assist.

Braking
All-wheel disc brakes are offered as standard. Mahindra has also equipped the BE 6e with brake by wire. The traditional booster has been replaced by an integrated electronic booster. What this does is that before applying the mechanical brakes, the system uses regeneration to slow down the vehicle. If more force is needed, then the mechanical brakes are applied. This system is claimed to give a range benefit of up to 18%. The brakes felt sharp and responsive. The brake pressure was linear and progressive which helped in slowing down the vehicle in a predictable manner. Even under hard braking, the car didn’t lose its composure.