2022 Maruti XL6 Facelift Review
The Maruti-Suzuki XL6 facelift is on sale in India at a price of between Rs. 11.28 - 14.55 lakhs (ex-showroom all-India).

Maruti XL6 Pros
A 6-seater MPV at the price of C segment sedans & some compact SUVs
Improved stance with upsized wheels + tyres and cosmetic exterior updates
Comfortable captain seats & spacious cabin make it a fantastic car for the chauffeur-driven
A competent BS6 petrol with excellent fuel efficiency. Convenient automatic available as an option
Significant updates including DualJet engine, 6 speed AT with paddle shifters, ventilated front seats, telescopic steering, Suzuki Connect with voice activated controls, UV cut glass for windows
Improved safety kit consisting of 4 airbags, ESP & Hill Hold Assist, integrated TPMS, 360 degree camera, etc.
Maruti’s excellent after-sales service, wide dealer network & fuss-free ownership experience

Maruti XL6 Cons
Petrol-only. No diesel on offer. CNG may be a future option
Updated engine lacks outright grunt. Tuned for fuel efficiency and suitable for relaxed cruising only
Cabin updates have not significantly upped the premium factor over the outgoing car
Captain seat layout means just 2 people on the middle row
Build, quality & refinement are ordinary for a car costing well over a million rupees. Not a “premium” Ertiga
3rd-row isn't for everyone as the 2nd-row doesn't tumble forward, making ingress / egress tricky
Some missing features like auto-dimming IRVMs, sunroof, curtain airbags etc.

Introduction
The Ertiga has been the go-to compact MUV in the Indian market since it was launched in 2012. The 2nd-gen car, which was launched in 2019 and the XL6 - its Nexa sibling, ensured that the success story continued. The twins continue to sell more than 10,000 copies a month combined.
In a discerning market demanding more bang for their buck by the day, Maruti have given the XL6 some meaningful updates. It has added significant features including some that were missed in the outgoing car.
While on the outside, the XL6 gets just some cosmetic changes and new alloy wheels, on the inside, it now sports ventilated front seats, UV cut glass, reach adjustable steering wheel and a 7" SmartPlay Pro touchscreen head-unit. It has a sharp screen with good resolution, and had a variety of settings menus for various features. The car is equipped with Suzuki Connect with integrated voice activated controls, and features remote functionality for a variety of options including vehicle systems status, safety, trip & driving behavior analysis. Integrated voice assistant is activated via a 'Hi Suzuki' phrase.
The car is also accessible remotely through a compatible smartphone or watch via Amazon Alexa. It enables one to remotely turn on the air-con (6AT variant only), hazard lamps, check fuel level etc. This feature is network-dependent as all commands are processed server side, limiting its use case in a basement parking with patchy network coverage. Some commands, like turning on the engine for the air-con, need additional authentication (PIN).
In the safety department, the XL6 now comes with 4 airbags (2 each front + side), ESP & Hill Hold Assist (HHA) standard across all variants. A 360 degree camera is available on the Alpha and Alpha+ variants while an integrated TPMS is available on the Alpha+ variant.
The biggest change to the XL6 is the drivetrain. While the car continues to be powered by a 1.5L petrol engine, it now gets Suzuki's DualJet system and the old 4-speed torque converter AT has been replaced with a 6-speed unit.

Maruti XL6 Exterior Review
Front end features a revised radiator grille with thick chrome borders and a tweaked central chrome element (Maruti calls it 'X-bar') flanked by LED DRLs.
Rear end now looks more subtle and mature. Rear camera is well-concealed above the number plate.
Significant changes to the sides include larger, redesigned alloy wheels, changes to the ORVMs and a chrome insert on the front body panel.
Headlamps are quad-reflector LED units (two for each beam). Foglamps continue to be LED units.
Front camera, which is part of the 360-degree camera feature sits under the "S" logo on the radiator grille and is superbly integrated.
Front body panel garnish gets a chrome insert.
ORVMs are now body-colored (outgoing car had black units). The side cameras for the 360-degree camera feature are placed under the ORVMs.
The biggest change - one that arguably transforms the car's stance, is the wheel & tire upsize. The car now sports machine-finished 16" alloy wheels in a striking new design, shod with 195/60 section rubber. The wheel arches look visibly fuller, and the car no longer looks top heavy & under-tyred from any angle. Thumbs up.
Surprisingly, the front wheel wells have only partial cladding with the metal clearly visible while the rear wheel wells are fully clad. It's usually the opposite in most cars.
Stubby antenna has been replaced with a sleek sharkfin unit. Tailgate gets a subtle and neatly integrated spoiler.
Revised tail-lamps have a smoked effect and sleek LED light guides - a welcome change from the traditional red cluster of the outgoing car.
Piano black tailgate garnish now sports a thin chrome strip above the Suzuki logo. The thick chrome insert above the number plate has been replaced with a piano black unit.

Maruti XL6 Interior Review
Dashboard has been retained from the outgoing car. It gets a few updates.
Steering wheel now gets tilt and telescopic adjustments (outgoing car had tilt adjustment only). This makes finding the right driving position easier.
6-speed AT gets paddle shifters, which are placed behind the steering wheel.
Paddle shifters are large and easy to operate.
Switch for the 360 camera has been added next to the switches for the ESP, idling start/stop and headlamp leveler.
UV cut glass have been provided on the side windows, while the front windscreen has an IR cut feature. In this sunfilm-less era, such solutions from the factory are a godsend.
A welcome feature addition are the ventilated seats feature. They are very effective! Mod Vid6639 opines they are better than anything he's experienced even from a few segments above.
Seats now get updated perforated leatherette upholstery. Perforated material is mandatory for the seat's cooling function.
The space between the 12V power outlet and USB port on the center fascia has now been filled with switches for the 3-step adjustable ventilated seats for driver & front passenger.
Gear shifter has been carried over from the outgoing car, but does not get the overdrive off switch on the side, which the old 4-speed unit had. The gearbox does not have an "L" mode either. Instead you get an "M" mode.
Side airbags have been added to the front seats.

Driving the 1.5L Petrol AT
1.5L DualJet petrol engine produces 102 BHP @ 6,000 rpm and 137 Nm @ 4,400 rpm.
The 2022 XL6 is powered by a 1,462 cc, naturally aspirated K15C DualJet petrol engine that puts out 102 BHP @ 6,000 rpm and 137 Nm @ 4,400 rpm. These figures are slightly lower than the outgoing K15B unit (103 BHP & 138 Nm). The K15C Dualjet has a new head, dual injection ports, dual VVT, and revised internals. The Smart Hybrid system also receives an upgrade, with a higher capacity secondary Li-ion battery providing longer assist during acceleration (more on this later) and improved regeneration off-throttle. The revisions and hardware upgrades seem focused on fuel efficiency and emission management, rather than extracting outright performance. Maruti expect this engine to help it to  meet CAFE norms under BS6.2 and future flex fuel requirements. The XL6 also gets an Aisin-sourced 6-speed AT in place of the 4-speed unit of the outgoing car. The 6-speed AT has two modes - Drive (D) & Manual (M). There is no L mode like the old 4-speed AT. Paddle shifters have been provided as well.
The engine is refined at idle, and crawls off from a standstill without throttle input in D. Throttle response is muted, and the engine, surprisingly, doesn't feel as free-revving as motors of yore. Sedate throttle inputs see the Smart Hybrid's ISG motor kick in with an assist around 1,400 rpm, which continues up to 2,000 rpm before disengaging and letting the engine take over fully. Notably, battery assist only works in D mode, not in M. The engine feels reasonably quick off the line getting up to ~20 km/h, no doubt aided by a little battery boost, but acceleration tapers off noticeably post the initial eagerness. Both Vid6639 & I noticed that while driving.
In D mode, the engine seems to drop to idle revs as soon as one gets off the gas pedal, essentially freewheeling while the ISG switches to regeneration mode to charge the secondary battery. This disengaging and re-engaging of the drive off & on throttle is perceptible. In practice, D mode is equivalent to a conservative Eco mode.
On the open road, the XL6 is more of a sedate cruiser than an outright performer. Flooring the A-pedal gets it to 6,200 rpm redline, but it's more noise than progress. Gear ratios 5 and 6 are too tall. The latter, especially, is muted - so much so, that flooring the throttle in 6th gear essentially does nothing. On the highway, especially an undivided one, overtaking will necessitate dropping down a couple of gears. What the gearbox is great for though, is relaxed cruising. Cruising at 80 km/h in 6th gear sees the engine spinning at ~1,750 rpm.
Engage M mode and the only noticeable change is the motor holding the revs at the redline without upshifting. Progress is still sedate, and this car is obviously not getting anywhere in a hurry. M mode is best used for the occasional undivided highway jaunt, or driving up/down a hill where holding a lower gear is necessary for control & safety. Don't expect peppy throttle response, whichever mode you're in.
As mentioned earlier, the updates are more FE-focussed. The 1.5L petrol with the 6-speed AT has an ARAI rating of 20.27 km/l, which is a significant improvement over the outgoing car's 17.99 km/l.
Aisin-sourced 6-speed AT replaces the 4-speed AT.

Noise, Vibration & Harshness (NVH)
Cabin insulation has been improved compared to the outgoing car. Some outside noises still filter in, but you no longer feel like you are a part of the surrounding traffic.

Driving the 1.5L Petrol MT
The K15C motor is also available with a 5-speed manual transmission. The performance of the MT is largely identical to that of the AT though there are a few differences. The MT feels slightly peppier in lower gears, and accelerates better in the mid range. In city traffic where speeds are slower and you don't need a lot of revs, the MT is very easy to drive with enough pep to keep up in traffic. The transmission does not  keep disengaging like that in the AT, which makes it easier to close gaps in the traffic. The MT too has the Smart Hybrid system as before but the ISG assist lasts longer, often staying engaged until higher revs. We saw it still assisting till 3,000 rpm. However, the regeneration is less aggressive in the MT vs the AT.
On the highway, the performance remains blunt with the MT. The XL6 is strictly a relaxed cruiser with nothing in it for the enthusiast. It's best enjoying cruising at speeds of 80-100 km/h. Try to pull off a sudden overtake and the lack of grunt is apparent, which necessitates aggressive downshifting. Even while climbing steeper bridges at 80 km/h, I found myself shifting from 5th to 4th gear.
Overall, the 5-speed box's shift quality is acceptable. However, in today's time and age Maruti should have given it a 6th cog for efficiency and more relaxed cruising. One less cog means the car cruises at a few hundred revs higher. Consequently, engine note is more noticeable in the cabin at cruising speeds.
The ARAI rating for the XL6 MT is 20.97 km/l, which is again, higher than the outgoing car's 19.01 km/l.

Suspension
Maruti has tweaked the XL6's spring damping to accommodate the larger wheel-tyre combo and we're pleased to report that there's no noticeable adverse impact on ride quality. The ride is slightly firmer over broken patches at lower speeds, but even sharper bumps aren't transmitted into the cabin or unsettle the car's composure.
The handling continues to be acceptable for the segment. The car moves predictably, but quick & sharp changes of direction are best avoided, like any other MUV.
Maruti has improved the steering wheel's centering action and it's far more aggressive than previous iterations. The last quarter turn to center is still a bit vague. This combined with the play at dead center, means that the steering needs a soft but firm hand to hold its line.