Maruti Suzuki Alto K10 Review

Maruti Alto K10 Pros
A much improved, well-rounded city car as compared to the outgoing generation
Peppy performance with a healthy power-to-weight ratio
Excellent fuel efficiency. ARAI figures: 24.90 km/l (AMT) and 24.39 km/l (MT)
Convenient AMT available at a premium of Rs. 50,000 makes it the cheapest automatic car available in India
Sufficient cabin space to accommodate four 6-footers
Small dimensions, good visibility, light controls, AMT transmission & a tiny 4.5 m turning radius make it a great choice for city driving as well as first-time car buyers
Good touchscreen ICE with Android Auto + Apple CarPlay + steering mounted controls
Maruti's fuss-free ownership experience & widespread dealer network

Maruti Alto K10 Cons
Significantly more expensive compared to the previous generation
Narrow width makes it a strict 4-seater
Basic ride quality. Feels wobbly over rough patches and can bottom out on when going over larger potholes
Poor high speed dynamics & NVH. Best driven at double-digit speeds
Skinny low grip 145 mm tyres given the power on offer
Missing essentials such as rear power windows, rear wiper/defogger, day/night IRVM, etc.
Light, economy-grade build quality. Sibling S-Presso scored 0 stars in the GNCAP crash tests
S-Presso offers a lot more at just ~15,000 more (greater space, larger wheels & tyres, body-coloured and electrically adjustable ORVMs, features like ESP with hill-hold (AMT)), etc.

Introduction
How the times have changed! 8 years after the previous generation K10 was launched and a full decade after the previous generation Alto platform was introduced, the 'all new' Maruti Alto enters a drastically changed market.
Back in 2012, the Alto was the best-seller in the Indian automobile market, selling 20k units per month on a consistent basis. In fact, it retained that title for 16 long years! Fast forward to 2022 and we find that buyers clearly favour more expensive and upmarket hatchbacks like the WagonR, Swift and Baleno over humble A-segment products. Maruti tried to buck the trend by bringing in the 'SUV-inspired' S-Presso and even discontinued the K10 variant of the Alto for a full two years in favour of the former. However, ~13,000 Indians still bring an Alto home every month and this ensured that Maruti did not give up on its entry-level product. Enter the all-new Alto!
In 2010, the 'K10' was launched as a response to the tough competition from Tata (Nano) and Hyundai (Eon). The quickest way for Maruti to respond to both the products was a two-pronged attack with a more upmarket variant of the Alto by plonking in the engine from the A-Star / WagonR. 88 bhp/ton in such a small car was unheard of back then and the K10 was met with a warm response from the enthusiast community, earning quite the reputation for itself as a pocket rocket. However, it was still the regular F8D 800cc motor that brought in the numbers. So much so that, strangely, when Maruti updated the Alto in 2012, the K10 received the changes only after two years! Now though, in keeping with the times, the all-new Alto debuts only with the more expensive K10, selling alongside the older generation 800.
The new Alto will also be the latest and cheapest car to be based on Maruti's Heartect platform, which it shares with other cars from the company's stable, including the flagship XL6! The car will be powered by the 1.0L, 3-cylinder K10-C petrol engine that was introduced with the second generation Celerio. It churns out 66 BHP @ 5,500 rpm and 89 Nm @ 3,500 rpm. While this may not sound much, in the lightweight Alto which weighs between 716 to 741 kilos, these figures equate to a very healthy ~90 BHP/ton. Transmission options include a 5-speed manual and an AMT (or as Maruti calls it, Auto Gear Shift).

Maruti Suzuki Alto K10 Price
Maruti has launched the Alto K10 in 4 variants – STD(O), LXi, VXi, and VXi+. Prices start from Rs. 3.99 lakh for the base STD(O) variant, but that variant is mainly for advertisement purposes. This base variant does not even get air-conditioning, power steering or body-coloured bumpers - all considered bare essentials in 2022! Prices range from Rs. 4.82 lakh for the LXi to Rs. 5.33 lakh for the VXi+ variant. AMT is offered on the VXi and higher trim levels with prices starting from Rs. 5.49 lakh and going up to Rs. 5.83 lakh for the VXI+ AGS.
At these prices, the Alto K10 is priced ~ Rs. 60,000 more than the older generation 800 that will be sold alongside it for now. Direct rivals include the Renault Kwid 1.0 and even its platform sibling - the S-Presso, which is only ~ Rs. 15,000 more expensive. While the Alto K10 still remains one of the cheapest entry-level cars on sale, we feel that the car's higher variants are overpriced, with the top AMT trim nearing Rs 7 lakh (on-road) in some cities. The S-Presso has quite a lot going for it including SUV-inspired styling (as the market demands), more space, larger wheels and tyres, body-coloured and electrically adjustable ORVMs, features like ESP with hill-hold (AMT only), etc. But Maruti believes the clientele for these two products are slightly different, not to mention the S-Presso's love-it-or-hate-it vibe as compared to the universal appeal of the Alto.

Exterior
Design & Styling
The Alto K10 looks unmistakably Maruti, as if the 2016 Alto took on inspiration from the first-generation Celerio with some lessons copied from the Hyundai i10. There is no major design language or lines to speak of - the car tries to please all and offend none by bringing in the familiar lines that we have seen on many Maruti cars before. Maruti already offers the S-Presso for those looking for a more polarising design language. The Alto simply plays a very conservative game. The design mainly focuses on the front end which is a cute evolution of the 2016 facelift, but now, with an unmistakable resemblance to the old Hyundai i10. The large honeycomb grille hides the newfound height and gives the car its own identity. The slab-sided doors appear bland and are reminiscent of the erstwhile first-generation Celerio, whereas the rear appears like a rounded-off version of the S-Presso.
The new car measures 3,530 mm in length, 1,490 mm in width and 1,520 mm in height, which makes it shorter in length by 15 mm and taller by 45 mm compared to the outgoing K10. Compared to the Alto 800 though, it is 85 mm longer and 45 mm taller. Even the wheelbase, at 2,380 mm, is longer by 20 mm.
Maruti offers the K10 with six colour options - Solid White, Metallic Silky Silver, Metallic Granite Grey, Metallic Sizzling Red, Metallic Speedy Blue and Pearl Metallic Earth Gold.

Build Quality, Fit & Finish
The Alto K10 is one of the cheapest and lightest cars available in the Indian market. Hence, it is advisable to keep expectations low. Get this - despite the larger dimensions, bigger capacity engine and AMT transmission, the heaviest Alto K10 is still 21 kilos lighter than the 800! Build quality is typical economy-grade Maruti, although much improved over its predecessor. The doors are light and there is flex in the panels as well, as is expected from an extremely light car. Paint quality is good and at par with other cars in the segment. Panel gaps are slightly inconsistent, but not much so that the owners would complain.

Wheels & Tyres
The new K10 gets an upgrade in wheel size compared to the 800. It rides on 13" wheels shod with 145/80 section tyres. Our test car came with JK Tyre Ultima Neo rubber. Top variants are offered with wheel caps.
However, the upgrade is just not enough! The car not only looks a tad under-tyred for the height, but grip levels are also extremely poor for the power on offer! For reference, the S-Presso comes 14" wheels shod with 165/70 section tyres and even that is inadequate on the highways. We appeal to owners to keep speeds in check, especially when it rains.

Ground Clearance
The official ground clearance figure of the Alto K10 has not been revealed. The short wheelbase, extremely short overhangs, etc ensured the ground clearance was not an issue during our test drive. Most owners should have no reason to complain.

Standard & Extended Warranty
Maruti cars are offered with a standard warranty of 2 years / 40,000 km, which can be extended to 5 years / 1,00,000 km. We always recommend purchasing the maximum possible extended warranty available for added peace of mind.

Safety
The Alto K10 is equipped with a few safety features as standard such as dual airbags, ABS + EBD, driver + passenger seatbelt reminder and pre-tensioners, headlight leveller and reverse parking sensors. Apart from this, you also get speed-sensitive auto door locks and central locking on select variants.
While NCAP tests have not been conducted for the 2022 Alto, we do not expect the car to fare well. The S-Presso, based on the same Heartect platform, scored 0 stars in the GNCAP crash tests. Also missing are basic safety features such as a rear defogger, rear washer & wiper, hill-hold assist for AGS variants, day/night IRVM and more.

Interior
Cabin Design & Quality
Like the exterior, the dashboard design is inoffensive and feels like a typical Maruti product using the Heartect platform. That is a good thing for the Alto, making the interior a lot better compared to the older generation car. However, contrasting silver highlights are very sparingly used on this all-grey dashboard and there is very little to break the monotony. The design is centered around the SmartPlay touchscreen head-unit, but the floating tablet surround makes it look like an after-thought from some angles.
There are no fabrics anywhere (except on the contact areas of the seat) let alone any soft-touch plastics, but then, that is the norm in this segment. Not only are the plastics hard, but we got a smell of cheap resin/plastic when we got into the cabin after leaving the car under the sun for a while.

Space & Comfort
Due to the newfound height, ingress & egress is easy. You still sit down in the car (this is no WagonR to simply walk in), but even elders shouldn't have issues with these seats. Once inside, the new Alto is no longer cramped for space like it used to be! In fact, Zappo never felt claustrophobic during the day's drive - something that used to hurt him in the 800. The space liberated on the inside, both at the front and rear, is the biggest improvement in this generation of the Alto.

Driving Position & Ergonomics
Lacking driver seat height adjustment and steering rake/reach adjustability, the Alto K10 is set for an average Indian build. Others will find it difficult to get comfortable. For my height (5'11"), the under-thigh support was minimal and the knees were in an upward position making me wish that the seat was set a bit higher. But then, my knees were also brushing against the bottom of the steering wheel. Taller drivers will have concerns.
Controls are placed as typical of Maruti Suzuki cars and just where you would expect them to be. The only major exception here is the placement of the power window switches.

Cabin Storage
Storage options are available only for the front seat occupants. There are two cup-holders and a small storage space just ahead of the gear lever. If you place your coffee cup out there or your phone, you are going to have to bend forward to pick it up. Bottle holders in the door pads can accommodate slimmer 1L bottles and other knick-knacks. The glovebox is small and is best used for documents and sunglasses. Needless to say, it has no compartments, ventilation or illumination.
Rear passengers get nothing! Technically, there is a small bottle holder behind the center console, but the weird shape makes it somewhat useless for the intended purpose.

Air-Conditioning
The base variant of the Alto does not get air-conditioning, but the LXi and higher variants get a manual A/C. Considering the small size of the cabin, the air-conditioning does a good job of cooling the cabin within minutes. However, due to the large glass area, this one is no chiller either. You can just leave it at maximum cooling and forget about it during highway runs. The blower is noisy and is audible right from the 2nd speed, getting intrusive in the 3rd and becoming quite an irritation at full speed.

Features
Unique & Noteworthy Features
As expected in the A-segment, there is not much on offer in terms of features. In fact, as mentioned earlier, the STD(O) variant does not even get basic equipment such as air-conditioning or power steering. However, the higher variants of the Alto K10 get some of the features expected by buyers in 2022. Features on offer include dual airbags, a 17.78 cm SmartPlay Studio touchscreen head-unit with Apple CarPlay and Android Auto, front (only) power windows, etc.

Audio System & Sound Quality
The top-end VXi+ variant of the Alto K10 comes with Maruti’s SmartPlay Studio system. You also get steering-mounted controls, Android Auto and Apple CarPlay connectivity with the system that’s connected to 4 speakers. The touchscreen infotainment is very user-friendly and doesn’t have lag and is slick to operate. We expected terrible sound quality but were pleasantly surprised, especially considering this is a budget car. The sound quality is impressive for an entry-level car. Note: It is not quality sound as in a Tiago, but it is far better than you would expect in a 4-5 lakh Maruti. Overall, the infotainment experience is good for the price. The VXi variant gets a SmartPlay dock, whereas, the other two lowest variants don't get any infotainment options.

Rear Passengers
Rear Seat Comfort & Space
The Alto is no longer cramped for legroom like it used to be! A 6-foot passenger can sit behind an equally tall driver without much discomfort.   The headroom is also satisfactory. That said, for most regular-sized adults, the Alto is a 4-seater car and even a child extra will be a squeeze.

Boot Space
At 214 litres, the new Alto K10's boot is much bigger than that of the Alto 800 (177 litres), but is smaller than its competitors such as the S-Presso (270 litres) and the Renault Kwid (279 litres). The boot's layout is practical though. The rear seats do fold down, but there is no added convenience of a 60/40 split rear seat. The top variant gets a parcel shelf, but it doesn't get the simple strings that pulls it up with the tailgate.

Driving the Alto K10 1.0L Petrol MT
The Alto K10 is powered by the 998 cc, 3-cylinder, 12V DOHC, all-aluminium K10C petrol engine that was introduced in the 2021 Celerio. It churns out 66 BHP @ 5,500 rpm and 89 Nm @ 3,500 rpm. Like the previous versions of the K10, this unit makes the Alto quite peppy and enjoyable to drive. With a kerb weight of merely 716 - 741 kilos, the car has a very healthy power-to-weight ratio of ~90 BHP/ton.
The K10C motor features two notable additions – Dual Jet and Dual VVT. This means that there are two injectors (Dual Jet) per cylinder that spray fuel into the combustion chamber. Having two injectors leads to better atomisation and thereby cleaner combustion. The compression ratio has also gone up from 11 in the K10B to 11.5 in the K10C. VVT (variable valve timing) adjusts the valve timing to increase fuel efficiency and in a 'dual' VVT system, both intake and exhaust valves are adjusted to maximise fuel efficiency and performance.
Crank the engine and you immediately realise that this is an entry-level car. Typical of 3-cylinder units, there is a little cabin shake on cranking, while mild vibrations are felt at idle. Release the light clutch and the Alto K10 rolls off from a standstill with ease. It can easily move away from 0 km/h in second gear too with light accelerator inputs. Driveability is excellent and the light kerb weight makes things easy for this little 1.0. The motor feels very tractable in the city and it’s got a practical state of tune. The healthy low-end & perfect gearing means you do not have to downshift too often. Driving around in the city won’t be much of an issue for this small hatchback. In fact, it feels very much at home. The only fly in the ointment is a light, but very perceptible judder felt near idling rpms, especially pronounced in 2nd gear. This was present in the AMT variant as well and is likely to be the result of some aggressive tuning for fuel efficiency.
Out on the open road, the Alto K10's power-to-weight ratio is enough for it to keep up with hatchbacks from a segment above. On the expressway, you'll enjoy redlining this car all the way to 83 km/h in second gear and 120 km/h in 3rd gear. Overtaking is easy & fuss-free. The engine gets vocal at higher revs and not everyone is going to enjoy its audio track. Sadly, the grip levels just can't keep up with the engine and thus, it is best to cruise at speeds of 90-100 km/h in 5th gear.
For quick overtaking manoeuvres, while at cruising speeds, you will have to shift down to 3rd gear as there’s not much progress when you floor the A-pedal in 4th gear. The tall 3rd gear and occasional downshifts to 2nd would take care of your pedal-to-metal driving when on twisty roads.
The clutch is nice and light to operate, with just the right travel length. The 5-speed gearbox could have done with shorter throws. While it is light and slots accurately, it feels a bit rubbery.

Noise, Vibration & Harshness (NVH)
The NVH package is cheap & basic. The Alto does alright at city speeds. But as the revs climb, you’ll hear that 3-cylinder thrum that all of us are familiar with since the Maruti 800 days. It is also louder in the Alto than other Marutis with the same engine. Reason = poorer insulation. At 100 km/h, road & wind noise are high. What’s worse, while driving over broken roads, you’ll clearly hear pebbles hitting the inside of the wheel arches (as there is partial / no cladding). Even the sound of rainwater splashing against the wheel wells is heard inside the cabin! Maruti could surely improve the NVH.

Mileage & Fuel Economy
Maruti has done a lot of things to maximise fuel economy. The ARAI-certified fuel economy of the Alto K10 MT is 24.39 km/l. With the AMT gearbox, the fuel economy is even higher at 24.9 km/l. Owners should have no reason to complain in the real world either - we were seeing average MID figures close to 20 km/l despite driving with a heavy foot for certain periods.
That said, the figures are lesser than the Celerio, which debuted with the same motor despite it being a heavier car with much better tyres. We attribute the difference to the idle start-stop system in the Celerio that shuts off the engine while idling, which also adds to the fuel efficiency.

Driving the Alto K10 1.0L Petrol AMT
The 2022 Alto K10 gets the latest generation Magneti Marelli-sourced AMT unit, which is available in the VXi and VXi+ variants.
The AMT mechanism is a simple bolt-on job and uses the K10 MT's existing gearbox. It’s pretty straightforward in the way it works. Mechanically, the AMT gearbox is identical to the K10’s manual transmission. What's different is how the clutch is operated and how the gears are shifted. In the MT, the driver is responsible for these tasks. With the AMT, hydraulic actuators located in the engine bay operate the clutch and shift gears. There's no clutch pedal, and zero driver input is required for gearshifts, making it exactly like a conventional automatic to drive. Simply put, the mechanical functions of operating the clutch and gear lever have moved from inside the cabin to the engine bay. To know more about AMTs & how they work, click here.
The engine must be started with the gear lever in neutral. You have to press the brake pedal as well, or else the engine won't fire up. There's no 'P' (park) mode or gear unlock button like in a conventional AT. Once fired up, slide the gear lever to 'D' (drive) to get going. As you release the brake, the car will move forward without any accelerator input. However, it doesn't move too fast and will crawl at 6-7 km/h, without any accelerator input. When you press the accelerator, you'll notice that the throttle response is quite immediate. It's exactly like a pure manual in this respect.
City traffic is where the AMT truly shines and brings the most benefits. There's no clutch pedal and no requirement for the driver to repeatedly shift between Neutral-1st-2nd either. In crawling bumper-to-bumper traffic, you don't need to give any accelerator input. Just release the brake, and the car crawls forward. The start-off is extremely smooth. Budget car owners will love the fact that their left leg is completely relaxed. The tricky part with the AMT in city driving though is parking in tight spots. Unlike a conventional AT where it's possible to ease the car forward very gradually, the AMT is more of an "on or off" solution, as it tries its best not to slip the clutch more than required. This results in a more eager movement, which can be a bit tricky when getting in & out of tight parking spaces.
Gear-shifting quality is a universal sore point for automated manual transmissions. The K10's AMT unit, which is the improved version of the previous generation, is actually very good. In fact, it seems like Maruti has finally caught up with Hyundai’s smooth-shifting AMT. With a light foot on the accelerator, the gearshifts are barely noticeable. First-time automatic drivers won't have any complaints with the AMT. It’s only when you are driving with a heavy foot that the shifts are noticeable in the form of the typical head-nod.
People who are used to driving AMT cars will like this unit for sure. One of the ways to make your drive even smoother is to let off the accelerator at intervals, and the AMT will seize that opportunity to upshift. E.g. When going from 0-40 km/h, let off the accelerator very slightly at 10, 20 and 30 km/h, and the AMT will take each one of those opportunities to move up a gear - almost like you told it to! Shift quality gets better between higher gears and is virtually seamless when going downhill. The AMT unit is smooth even while downshifting. There's absolutely no noise or clunking when the gears shift.
Fuel efficiency is without a doubt what the AMT has been tuned for. This means the transmission is very eager to upshift and before you know it, you will be cruising along in 5th gear at 50 km/h. Even in crawling traffic, the AMT will upshift to 2nd gear at fairly low speeds. When the rpms drop, the transmission will downshift to a lower gear. Interestingly, if left without accelerator inputs in rolling traffic conditions - the car will slowly move in 2nd gear at 14 km/h, and the transmission will shift down to first only when the brakes are applied. The current gear indicator on the MID keeps you in the loop as to which gear is engaged. It's quite a novelty and will be appreciated by prospective and existing owners of the Alto K10 AMT.
The engine gives out a nice blip on kick-down and doesn't hesitate to drop down two gears at a time (e.g. 5th to 3rd). With a heavy foot on the accelerator, the AMT holds a gear all the way to the end of the rpm range before upshifting. The driver also has an option to use 'manual mode' to prevent premature upshifts while overtaking on highways.
Manual mode has other advantages as well, especially for the more enthusiastic drivers who want a higher degree of control. Like other hatchbacks with AMTs, the K10 offers a Tiptronic-like manual mode. Towards the right of the MID gear indicator, there is a small alphabet readout: 'M' for Manual & 'D' for Drive, indicating the mode that you are currently in. In manual mode, the AMT will not upshift automatically unless you reach the end of the rpm range. Conversely, if the rpm drops too low, the AMT will downshift to prevent the motor from stalling. If you try to upshift at too low an rpm or downshift at too high an rpm, the AMT will ignore your instructions and flash the gear indicator in protest. It's always a good idea to switch to manual mode before your favourite ghat section because it prevents sudden & unsettling gear changes mid-corner. An advantage of manual mode is that you can increase the amount of engine braking when going downhill. It's quite effective, although not as aggressive as in a pure MT. We recommend shifting to manual mode before overtaking when you need engine braking and of course, the times that you are in the mood for some fun.
Hill starts require you to use the correct procedure in order to minimize rollback. When starting off on a hill, switching your foot immediately from the brake to accelerator will result in the car rolling back... before it engages the clutch and moves forward. On a steep hill, the car can roll back as much as 3 feet before moving forward. It's dangerous, and also bad for the clutch in terms of wear & tear and overheating. Thus, it's best to use the parking brake when starting off on an incline. This results in only an inch or two of rollback and a very gradual start-off. A "hill-hold" function would have been a neat addition, especially considering the same is already available in the S-Presso.
I'd also like to add that the AMT manages the clutch & gearbox a lot better than sub-par drivers out there. There's no doubt that it is more talented than a below-average driver in choosing when to shift, how to shift and what gear to drive in.

Suspension & Ride Comfort
The Alto K10 comes with a MacPherson strut suspension at the front and a torsion beam with coil springs at the rear. The overall setup feels very basic, with a soft edge to the setup. For an entry-level hatchback, the car remains quite comfortable over rough sections at city speeds. On the highways - smaller patches are absorbed, but not in a confidence-inspiring way - because there is some roll and side-to-side wallow induced when going over the broken stuff. You will feel that the Alto is out of its comfort zone! Larger potholes register themselves sharply in the cabin, and it is possible to bottom out the suspension if you do not slow down. The suspension isn't silent in its operation either, and you can hear it work on a patch of bad road.

Handling & Dynamics
In a nutshell, the car is awesome in the city - its natural habitat. It’s narrow width + tall seating + good low end + peppy engine make it easy to dart in and out of traffic. As expected in such a small car, the turning radius is also small at just 4.5 m.
On the highway, it is mediocre and feels skittish. The motor has adequate pep to keep up with bigger cars on the highway, but the Alto K10 simply isn't planted at speeds above 100 km/h. We strongly recommend owners maintain an extremely safe & conservative driving style over inter-city commutes. Keep it at 100 km/h or below.
Body roll is present and this is not a car you'd like to corner hard in. The car's 13" rims are shod with 145/80 section JK Ultima-Neo tyres. Chosen for fuel-efficiency, these tyres are too thin for fast cornering - even the previous generation car had 155 section tyres! Woefully inadequate for the power on offer, and you have to be very careful while cornering, especially in wet situations.

Steering
The electric power steering in the Alto K10 is one-finger light at parking and city speeds. This makes it a very easy car to drive in urban surroundings. However, some might feel the steering is too light and vague in the center and you get no feedback at all. It’s pretty much dead like a video game steering. The mass market will like it though. At higher speeds, the steering does weigh up, but the complete lack of feel or feedback can be unnerving. Like the steering in most Maruti cars, there is no strong return to center action. Leave the steering at a slight angle while driving and you will keep on going in that direction. You have to manually straighten it.

Braking
The Alto K10 is equipped with disc brakes at the front and drum brakes at the rear. The brakes perform well and as you would expect without any drama. But there is only so much grip that can be provided by 145 section tyres, before ABS kicks in.

Niggles & Problems
The previous generation Alto K10 had quite a few issues with the AMT unit. Hopefully, the newer generation Magneti Marelli AMT unit isn’t riddled with problems. Apart from this, Maruti has a wide service network and part availability is never much of an issue. So ownership experiences should be satisfactory. That being said, get the extended warranty without giving it a second thought.

Maruti Alto K10 Exterior Images
The new Alto K10 looks like an evolution of the2016 Alto 800, with an undeniable inspiration from the first generation Hyundai i10. Large honeycomb grille lends some character to an otherwise bland design. The elements are designed to give a false sense of width to a narrow and tall silhouette.
Rear-end design is simple and reminiscent of the S-Presso, sans the 'SUV inspiration'. Even the tail-lamps share the same ideology.
From the side, the Alto K10 looks grown up and mature with inspiration from the first-gen Celerio. Subtle character lines try to break the monotony of the slab-sided profile. Wheels look way too small for the metal on top and do not fill up the wheel wells. Simple wheel caps don't help matters.
The Alto K10 measures 3,530 mm in length, 1,490 mm in width and 1,520 mm in height with a wheelbase of 2,380 mm. The car feels more tallboy-ish than ever before.
Rear 3/4th is where I feel the Alto just can't escape the first-gen Celerio vibes.
Headlamp design reminds you of the original i10. The simple halogen unit has a decent throw and also gets a manual leveller. No, there are no DRLs here.
Large honeycomb grille dominates the front bumper and is the major design characteristic of the new K10. No foglamps provided, and no provision to fit them either.
No underbody protection at all. See the black rod and wire mechanism on the right side of the picture? That’s actually the clutch actuating mechanism. Such a moving part should get a good amount of protection for sure.
Bonnet design is simple and smooth. There is only a subtle bulge on either side, and a centrally-placed single washer nozzle.
No option of body-coloured ORVMs on any of the variants. They are manually adjustable on the top two variants.
Flap-type door handles look outdated. It's worse on lower variants as the flaps are not body-coloured.
Glass area is huge for the size of the car, but still, rear quarter glasses would’ve been a nice addition.
13" steel rims with full wheel caps are shod in 145/80 section JK Tyre Ultima-Neo tyres. They are inadequate for the power on offer.
Absolutely no cladding in the front or rear wheel wells.
Long antenna is placed at the front. Roof is ribbed for added rigidity.
Halogen tail-lamp with all the lights in action. Only the LHS unit gets a reversing lamp.
Tailgate gets a traditional lock & key system only. No electromagnetic release here. Thankfully there is also a cable-operated internal release. Two reverse parking sensors are standard across all variants. There's no variant badge on the tailgate.
Rear suspension uses a torsion beam setup.
Our test car is seen wearing the Metallic Speedy Blue paint shade, which is shared with the new Celerio. Small cars usually carry off bright and eye-catching shades well and this is the case with the Alto too.

Maruti Alto K10 Interior Images
All-grey dashboard has a contemporary, mature design and is a drastic change compared to the funky, but dated design of the 800. Maruti has left out the funky and polarising design elements seen in the S-Presso. As expected in this segment, the plastics on the dashboard are all hard, and the quality is only as expected of the segment. You can't escape the sea of plastics in here, not only in sight, but also in smell.
Steering wheel is shared with the WagonR and Celerio. Its size and thickness are spot-on and it feels great to hold and operate, even though it does not get leather wrapping or contours for the thumbs. Horn pad is large and easy to press, but those with smaller fingers will find it a stretch to reach it. Totally sucks that the steering does not get tilt adjustment, though lack of reach adjustment was expected in this price bracket.
Buttons to control the infotainment system are placed on the left spoke. They are easy to operate and provide decent feedback. A useful mute button has also been provided. Call answer / disconnect and voice command buttons are placed down below. You have to press these buttons instead of pulling them towards you.
Wiper and light stalks are chunky and nice to touch. Turn-indicators have a lane change feature in which the indicators flash thrice when the stalk is tapped lightly.
Instrument cluster is shared with the S-Presso, though it is placed conventionally behind the steering wheel. It consists of a large digital speedometer in the middle, MID below it and warning lights on either side. Sucks that no temperature gauge or tachometer is provided, especially when it seems to have been designed with many such features (tachometer, traction control ON/OFF, CNG indicator, hill start assist) included. Maruti Suzuki seems to have reserved some of these functions for other models or other markets.
On the right-hand side, you will find five blanks instead of switches.
Rotary knob is a cable-operated headlamp leveller, which looks and feels outdated and cheap. On the plus side, there is quite a difference between the minimum and the maximum adjustments and there don't seem to be any fixed slots, so it smoothly rotates from 0 to 4 and the headlights too swing up and down slowly across the range. Thus it's easier to find a personal setting for the focus of the beam.
All-grey doorpads are very basic and do not get any fabric or soft-touch materials. Power window switches have been placed on the dashboard.
Door pockets can accommodate a 1 litre bottle and other knick-knacks. A 500 ml bottle is an easy fit.
Front seats get fabric upholstery only for the contact area. They are contoured, but not very wide. Those with a healthier build will find them insufficient. Headrests are fixed. They are soft and placed at a good height, making them comfortable + protective for even taller drivers.
Seats are not adjustable for height and so, have been set to be ergonomic only for the average Indian. At 5'11", I found the under-thigh support to be insufficient as well and my knees were in a slightly raised position.
A-B-C pedals are lifted from other Maruti cars. There is no dead pedal, but there is place for your left foot on the left.
A look at the pedals in the AMT variant. No clutch pedal means more space in the footwell.
ORVMs offer a sufficient view of the action behind. They are neither electrically adjustable nor foldable. Thanks to the narrow width of the cabin, it is possible to reach the passenger side stalk without stretching fully.
IRVM covers the entire rear windshield, but the C-pillars do restrict visibility.
Rearward visibility is restricted by thick C-pillars, but the tiny dimensions and reverse assist make the parking easier.
The center fascia is simple and designed to highlight the touchscreen infotainment. Maruti calls it a center-focussed design with a floating audio unit.
Central air vents placed above the touchscreen, look plain and feel cheap. You cannot shut these air vents completely. Our car showed a good amount of condensation near these vents while running at full power.
The VXi+ variant gets a 7-inch touchscreen head-unit dubbed the 'SmartPlay Studio'. Connectivity is through Bluetooth, USB and Aux-in. Apple CarPlay and Android Auto are supported as well.
Floating unit stick out from the top. Looks like an afterthought, especially when viewed from the sides.
Front power window switches are placed just below the touchscreen. This is a cost-effective solution and does take some time to get used to.
Manual air-conditioning is offered on all the variants, except the base STD(O) variant. Air-con controls are basic and feel outdated, especially the sliders for recirculation and temperature control. Like all Marutis, the A/C cooled the interior in no time, but with the large glass area - it doesn't chill you to the bone like in some other cars. The fan is quiet at level 1 and audible at level 2. It gets loud at level 3 and irritating at level 4.
Below the air-con controls are the 12V socket, Aux-in and USB port to connect your smartphone to the infotainment head-unit in order to use Apple CarPlay or Android Auto. It is not a high ampere port and will charge modern phones slowly. Both get plastic covers.
The small cubby at the base of the center fascia can hold some smaller phones. Two cup holders have been provided.
MT gear knob is plain ugly and seems to be taken from leftover items in the parts bin of previous generation products. Maruti could have at least used the one from the
S-Presso.
AMT shifter has been lifted from other cars in the Maruti stable like the S-Presso. Looks basic, but much better than the MT gear knob. Shift to the left for 'manual mode'. Move it down for upshifts & vice versa.
Glovebox has just enough space to keep your documents and sunglasses. It has no compartments, ventilation or illumination.
Single cabin lamp is placed in the front and is woefully inadequate for the cabin. If there's only one cabin lamp, it is best placed in the centre and not here at the front. Bluetooth mic is located on the right.
Sunvisors are economy grade in design and feel. No ticket holder or vanity lamp on either one.
Just like the front, the rear doorpads are all-grey. There are no rear storage pockets or power windows. Advantage Alto over S-Presso = rear speakers.
There is enough legroom here for two average-sized adults to sit one behind the other.
While a lap belt has been provided for a third occupant only 2 adults can sit comfortably on the rear bench. Even an extra child is a squeeze as the Alto is not a wide car. The seat base and backrest are largely flat with no contours to speak of and there is no center armrest.
Both side occupants get fixed headrests which are useless, especially for taller users. Maruti should have offered adjustable headrests for the rear passengers. No headrest for the middle occupant.
Storage at the rear sucks. There's one bottle holder at the end of the center console, but it isn't well designed and your bottle will fly around if you don't slow down for sharp potholes. There are no door pockets or seatback pockets.
Parcel tray gets a raised border to prevent stuff kept on it from rolling onto the rear seat.
Tailgate opens to a decent height and is easily reachable for most people.
At 214 litres, the Alto K10 has a bigger boot than the Alto 800 (177 litres), but is much smaller than the competition such as the S-Presso (270 litres) and Renault Kwid (274 litres).
However, the boot is well laid out. It's practical and useable.
Rear seat can be folded down though not flat. No 60:40 split folding option available here either.
Spare wheel is a 13" steel rim with a 145/80 section tyre.
Tailgate gets only a partial cladding to hide the mechanical bits