2024 Maruti Swift Review

Maruti Swift Pros
Stylish exterior is unmistakably "Swift", although opinions can be polarizing
Smart-looking interior with a good-looking dashboard and fine ergonomics
Manual transmission with short throws is very slick and a joy to use. Absolutely brilliant MT!
Great drivability and light controls, along with a small footprint make it a joy in the city
Sporty engine sound is addictive. It's the best sounding 3-cylinder I've driven
Choice of sporty MT and convenient AMT - take your pick
3-cylinder engine is fuel-efficient; ARAI rating of 25.75 km/l for the AMT (MT is 24.80 km/l)
Enjoyable handling & good high speed composure with a precise steering
Long list of features including automatic LED projector headlamps, LED DRLs, LED foglamps, cruise control, 9-inch touchscreen HU paired with an Arkamys sound system, rear A/C vents, wireless charging, footwell lighting, connected car features etc
Safety features such as 6 airbags, 3-point seatbelts for all, ESP, hill-hold assist, ABS+EBD, ISOFIX child seat mounts etc.
Maruti's widespread service network, excellent after-sales support & fuss-free ownership experiences

Maruti Swift Cons
1.2L petrol is not fast & exciting enough for enthusiasts. Not as refined as the outgoing 4-cylinder, nor as powerful (power has actually dropped to just 81 BHP)
Priced very close to the more premium & spacious Baleno
Mediocre plastic quality (interiors) is typical Maruti grade; very ordinary
AMT can get jerky & slow. Some competitors offered smoother ATs (e.g. Altroz DCT, Hyundai's AMT, i20's IVT)
No CNG or diesel option like some rivals
Low speed ride is jiggly due to suspension tune & 15-inch wheels
Black interiors and smallish glass area can make one claustrophobic, particularly at the back
Rear seat’s under-thigh support is mediocre for taller passengers
Some misses (auto-dimming IRVM, TPMS, sunroof, driving modes, smaller spare tyre on the Z trims...)
L & V variants get horribly skinny 165 mm tyres. Please upgrade
163 mm ground clearance raises our eyebrows, although Maruti hatchbacks aren't known to scrape speed breakers

Introduction
In India the B2 hatchback segment used to account for the highest unit sales among all segments. However, in recent years, hatchbacks have been losing ground to other body styles, particularly crossovers. That being said, some hatchbacks are still strong sellers due to their reputation and emotional connection with buyers. One such hatchback is the Maruti Swift.
The Swift has been one of the company's best-selling models making it a very important car in the product portfolio. Maruti has regularly managed to sell more than 15,000 units per month and the Swift is one of the few driver's cars left in the segment. Since its launch, more than 29 lakh units of the car have been sold in the country. In recent years, its only challenger has been Maruti's more premium hatchback - the Baleno, which was updated in 2022.
The Baleno offers more practicality with a better cabin, and boot space and also uses a more powerful engine. But in comparison with the Swift, it isn't as much fun to drive. The other strong performer in the segment - the Hyundai i20, got a lot more expensive with the generation change in 2020 and as a result, fell down the sales chart. This kept the demand for the third-gen Swift, which was launched in 2018, high. That being said, it was time for the Swift to get a generation change which would help keep buyers interested. And finally, in 2024, Maruti has launched the fourth-gen Swift in the country.
While the design of the car has been tweaked, it feels more like an evolution of the third-gen car rather than an all-new product. The new car is 20 mm longer and 10 mm shorter in height than the outgoing one. However, the width and wheelbase are identical to the old car. The boot space is slightly lesser (265 litres vs 268 litres), but the minimum kerb weight has increased.
The big change comes in the engine department. The car is available with a new Z-Series 1.2-litre, 3-cylinder petrol unit that puts out 81 BHP and 112 Nm. This is 1 cylinder, 8 BHP and 1 Nm lesser than the K-series engine of the outgoing car. Coming to transmissions, like before, there is a 5-speed MT and 5-speed AMT to choose from.
Maruti Suzuki has invested Rs. 1,450 crore in developing the new Swift, including localising the new Z-Series engine.

Maruti Swift Price & Brochure
The Maruti Swift is available in five variants - LXi, VXi, VXi (O), ZXi and ZXi+. Prices start at Rs. 6.49 lakh and go all the way up to Rs. 9.65 lakh (ex-showroom Delhi). This is more than its closest rival - the Hyundai Grand i10 Nios (Rs. 5.92 - 8.56 lakh) and not far behind the Baleno (Rs. 6.66 - 9.88 lakh). Still, the Swift seems to have gotten off to a good start. Bookings opened on May 1, 2024, and Maruti claims that in just 8 days, it had managed to get 10,000 bookings.
Download the 2024 Maruti Swift brochure here.
2024 Maruti Swift Brochure.pdf

Exterior
Design & Styling
As mentioned earlier, the fourth-gen Swift looks more like an evolution of the third-gen car. However, there are some changes. The clean design has made way for sharp cuts and creases, particularly on the sides and hatch. There is a wrap-around character line that runs from the bonnet shut line to the hatch.
Some notable features on the outside include new smoky LED projector headlamps with boomerang LED DRLs, glossy black radiator grille, LED fog lamps, LED tail lamps and 15-inch precision cut two-tone alloy wheels. The car is offered in 6 single-tone colour options - Luster Blue, Novel Orange, Sizzling Red, Pearl Arctic White, Magma Grey, and Splendid Silver. The first two shades in this list are new. Besides, there are three dual-tone colour options available, namely, Luster Blue with Midnight Black roof (our test car), Sizzling Red with Midnight Black roof, and Pearl Arctic White with Midnight Black roof.
The Swift measures 3,860 mm in length (20 mm more than the outgoing car), 1,735 mm in width and 1,520 mm in height (10 mm less than the outgoing car). It has a wheelbase of 2,450 mm and a ground clearance of 163 mm, which are identical figures to the outgoing car.

Build Quality, Fit & Finish
The Swift is built on Maruti's HEARTECT platform which underpins multiple other vehicles from the company. It comes with a body shell featuring 45% high tensile steel and 20% ultra-high strength steel. The car has a kerb weight of 920 kg (925 kg for the AMT). The doors, bonnet and boot are light and there is some flex when the sheet metal is pressed with your thumb. Overall build quality is acceptable. Its not solid like some competitors' offerings though.
The body panel gaps are uniform all over the car. But some shut lines could have been tighter. The paint quality is par for the course.

Wheels & Tyres
The ZXi+ variant that we drove comes with 15-inch, precision cut two-tone alloy wheels shod with 185/65 section Bridgestone Ecopia tyres. The wheel and tyre combo fills up the wheel arches well and looks proportionate to the metal on top. The ZXi variant gets 15-inch single-tone alloy wheels with the same tyre size. L & V variants get 14-inch steel rims with 165/80 section tyres.
The spare wheel in all variants is a 14-inch steel unit with a 165/80 section tyre. Maruti should've given a full-size spare on the top-end variant.

Ground Clearance
The fourth-gen Swift has a ground clearance of 163 mm, which is identical to the third-gen car. While we didn't scrape over any bumps, we didn't load the car up with 4 passengers & luggage either. Team-BHP ownership reports will tell the real-world story.

Standard & Extended Warranty
The Swift, like other Maruti cars, comes with a standard warranty of 2 years or 40,000 km. Extended warranty can be availed for up to 5 years or 1,00,000 km. As always, we strongly recommend you get maximum coverage.

Safety
The Swift is loaded with safety features like 6 airbags, ESP, hill hold assist, ABS with EBD and brake assist, 3-point seat belts with reminders for all occupants, traction control and reverse parking sensors. Additionally, the ZXi+ variant gets a wide-angle reverse parking camera. While an alert for low tyre pressure has been provided, a proper TPMS system is missing.
The fourth-gen Swift has been awarded a 4-star safety rating by Japan NCAP. This rating does not apply to the cars sold in India though. Hopefully, we get the Bharat NCAP ratings soon.

Interior
Cabin Design & Quality
The dashboard is new and has a neutral design with a pleasant layout. Most people will like it. It has an all-black theme with silver inserts. Piano black has been used on the centre fascia and around the touchscreen head-unit and gear console. Like most modern cars, the Swift now gets a tablet-like touchscreen head-unit instead of one integrated into the dashboard.
The seat upholstery, doorpads and even the carpets are black. This treatment could make the interior of the car claustrophobic for many people. However, it is unlikely to get soiled easily and in the long run, will be easier to keep clean compared to beige. The leather-wrapped, flat-bottom steering wheel is shared with other Maruti cars. It gets a glossy black insert.
The plastics on the dashboard are all hard. While the fit is satisfactory with no sharp edges or ill-fitted items, the overall quality of the plastics is ordinary. Overall, the interiors are well put together. Most of the switchgear is taken from other Maruti cars. The buttons and switches feel good to use and appear durable. They are far from premium though.

Space & Comfort
Ingress & egress are easy and you can get into the car without any difficulty. Once inside, there is enough space in the front. Cabin width is healthy and the headroom is adequate. The seats are upholstered in fabric, which is of satisfactory quality. While there is no lumbar adjustment, the seats offer good overall support. The cushioning is on the softer side (though not excessive) and spending long hours in them shouldn't be a problem. The driver seat gets height adjustment and can slide back far enough even for tall occupants to feel comfortable. A centre armrest and adjustable seatbelts could have enhanced the comfort levels though. The armrests on the front doorpads get a fabric wrapping where one would place his elbow. Overall, the front seats are nice to be in and most users will find the experience to be pleasant.

Driving Position & Ergonomics
In the driver's seat, you'll get acquainted with all the controls pretty quickly. The three-spoke, leather-wrapped steering is perfectly sized and lovely to hold, while the horn pad is easily reachable with your thumbs. The steering is adjustable for height but not reach. Still, it is easy to find the perfect driving position. The frontal view is good too.
The basic ergonomics of the Swift are pretty much perfect. Everything is exactly where you would expect it to be and within easy reach of the driver. The only real complaint that I had was regarding the positioning of the dead pedal in the MT. The clutch is placed too close to it and as a result, you will always find it coming in the way of your foot while you press the clutch. This gets very annoying, particularly in stop-go traffic.

Cabin Storage
There are a fair number of storage spaces in the cabin. You get a fairly sized glovebox, front doorpads that can hold a 1 litre bottle along with some other items, two cupholders in the centre console and a wireless smartphone charging pad at the base of the centre fascia. There is also a shallow storage space under the handbrake and a slot to keep a smartphone on the centre console above the rear A/C vents. The left front seatback has a pocket for rear passengers to use. The rear doorpads can hold a 500 ml bottle each.

Air-Conditioning
The Swift comes with a climate control unit and has physical switches that feel nice to use. In the ZXi and ZXi+ variants, air vents have been provided at the rear as well. On a hot May day, the A/C functioned very well to keep us cool.

Features
Unique & Noteworthy Features
The list of features in the Swift includes keyless entry & go, auto LED headlamps with Lead Me to Vehicle, Follow Me Home functions, LED DRLs, LED tail-lamps, reversing camera, rear washer+wiper, multi-function steering, cruise control, automatic climate control, three-point seatbelts for all occupants, front footwell lighting, wireless phone charging, rear A/C vents and two USB charging ports at the rear.
The Swift gets a 9-inch touchscreen head-unit with wireless Apple CarPlay and Android Auto connectivity and comes with an in-built telematics system. The system also gets an onboard voice assistant (wake up through "Hi Suzuki" and barge in feature) and over-the-air updates. Users can experience connected car features ranging from safety and security, location and trips, vehicle information and alerts, and other functionalities. They can remotely access functions like battery health, door locking, headlamps off, and more through the Suzuki Connect app on a smartphone, smartwatch and Alexa Skill.
What's missing? Rain-sensing wipers, seat lumbar adjustment, front and rear centre armrests, auto-dimming IRVM and sunroof.

Audio System & Sound Quality
Maruti offers a 9-inch touchscreen with its SmartPlay Pro+ infotainment system in the ZXi+ variant. The user interface is simple and easy to get used to and the display is crisp and clear. It's extremely smooth and seamless in operation. A physical rotary knob for the volume control and power on/off would have been nice to have though. Music is played through 4 speakers & 2 tweeters and is tuned by Arkamys.
In terms of audio quality, it's quite acceptable especially when you get the settings right. There are presets to choose from as well. This is a well-rounded system for a car of this segment.

Rear Passengers
Rear Seat Comfort & Space
The rear doors don't open sufficiently wide, and the roof of the car is low too. The roof slopes downwards at the rear and the rear seat is also placed lower than we would like, which means you have to 'sit down' in the car. This makes ingress & egress inconvenient for taller people, although average-sized users should not have a problem. Overall, the rear seats are comfortable. The cushioning is on the softer side, though not too soft.
The seat comes with 2 adjustable headrests and 3-point seatbelts for all 3 passengers. However, it is not wide, the floor hump is prominent and the centre console takes up some legroom. This means that the rear seat is suitable for only 2 adults and a child at best. A third adult will not be welcome.
The knee room at the rear is adequate and there's a good amount of headroom as well. At 5'10", I had about 2 inches of knee room to spare while sitting behind my driving position. There is also space under the front seats to slide one's feet into. Overall, the space is adequate for most passengers. The backrest is also set at a comfortable angle. The under-thigh support is sufficient for most people, but taller occupants will find it less for their liking. One of the complaints we have is that Maruti has not provided a centre armrest. Rear occupants get A/C vents and two fast-charging USB ports (Type A and Type C ports) for charging their smartphones.

Boot Space
The Swift has a boot space of 265 litres which is 3 litres less than the outgoing car. The rear seat is split in a 60:40 ratio. Folding the backrests down gives the car more luggage capacity. A bag hook and a light have been provided as well.

Driving the Maruti Swift 1.2L Petrol MT
1.2L, 3-cylinder Z-Series petrol engine makes 81 BHP @ 5,700 rpm and 112 Nm @ 4,300 rpm.
The fourth-gen Swift is powered by a 1.2L, 3-cylinder petrol engine. This unit is mated to a 5-speed manual transmission and puts out 81 BHP and 112 Nm. These numbers are lesser than the outgoing car (4-cylinder, 89 BHP & 113 Nm). With a kerb weight of 920 kg, the power-to-weight ratio & torque-to-weight ratio are 88 BHP/ton & 122 Nm/ton respectively. These are considerably lower than the outgoing car. This means that the new Swift is not as fast a performer as the previous generation car. It can be termed as brisk at best.
Maruti claims that the 1,197cc, Z12E unit has improved low-end torque delivery. It is equipped with an electric water pump for better engine cooling and a Lambda air-flow sensor for up to 12% lower CO2 emissions and higher fuel efficiency.
Start the engine by pressing the light clutch and hitting the engine start/stop button. Ease off the clutch and the Swift moves off the line smoothly without any throttle input. Throttle response is good and power delivery is linear. Driving about at city speeds, the car feels smooth. Good driveability is the key here. The car can pull from as low as 500 rpm without any clutch input albeit with a judder. The engine doesn't struggle at low revs and the car can keep up with the traffic without the driver having to shift down too often. This trait combined with a small footprint and light controls makes the Swift very easy to drive around in the city. The engine starts feeling comfortable at 1,500 rpm. The car is relaxed doing 50 km/h in 4th gear with the engine spinning at 1,500 rpm. It starts pulling well above 2,500 rpm.
On the open road, the Swift can be described as a brisk performer. It is not as fast or exciting as the outgoing car. The power delivery is linear and doesn't feel urgent at all. Enthusiastic drivers won't be very impressed by the performance. However, it's not slow and with proper use of the gears, good progress can be made.
There is decent mid-range delivery, but in order to facilitate quick overtaking manoeuvres, it's advisable to shift down to a lower gear. The engine revs up to 6,000 rpm, which is where the redline starts. At this point, the fuel cuts off, which can catch you out in the middle of an overtaking manoeuvre. This, coupled with the lack of power means that passing slower vehicles needs some careful planning. In terms of cruiseability, in 5th gear, 100 km/h is seen at 2,500 rpm while 120 km/h is achieved at 3,000 rpm.
The engine note needs a special mention here. While the typical 3-cylinder thrum is present, the engine sounds very sporty when revved. It's genuinely one of the best-sounding motors out there. It's extremely addictive and enjoyable, which urges you to rev hard and drive fast.
The 5-speed manual transmission is an absolute joy to operate. The throws are short and the shift action is very smooth. With well-defined gates, the gearbox is sure-slotting and it's very hard to miss a shift. The clutch is very light and the travel range is medium.

Noise, Vibration & Harshness (NVH)
Straight off the bat, the 3-cylinder Z12E lacks the refinement of the K12 motor that we've been so used to. It is not terrible by any means and there is a slight shake of the body as the engine cranks and at idle. You will feel mild vibrations coming in through the floor and on the seats. But, there is no engine noise heard at all. If it were not for the vibrations, one would be hard-pressed to tell if the engine is running.
While driving around calmly, the engine sound doesn't bother the cabin. However, as the revs climb, the engine makes itself heard a lot more in the cabin. While it's a likeable sound for enthusiasts, other occupants might complain as things get louder at higher revs.
There is a hint of wind noise above 100 km/h and gets louder with speed. Even so, it’s not excessive at 100-120 km/h. Road noise and tyre noise are average.

Mileage & Fuel Economy
Maruti claims that the fourth-gen Swift is the most fuel-efficient hatchback in its segment with a 14% improvement over its predecessor. The 1.2-litre naturally aspirated petrol has an ARAI-certified fuel efficiency of 24.80 km/l for the MT and 25.75 km/l for the AMT.
Maruti has equipped the Swift with an idling start/stop function to improve fuel efficiency. This feature worked seamlessly on our test drive and was not intrusive. It can be turned off by pressing a button on the centre fascia.
Bonnet gets insulation underneath and helps keep the noise levels low.
Sufficient insulation on the firewall.

Suspension & Ride Comfort
The Swift comes with a McPherson strut suspension at the front and a torsion beam suspension at the rear. The setup is on the firmer side and the slow-speed ride is stiff. The car feels jiggly on concrete surfaces with joints. Even small bumps on the road are noticeable. As the speed increases, the ride improves. At highway speeds, most bumps and undulations won't bother you. Large potholes do register themselves in the cabin though. What is impressive is how silently the suspension goes about its duty.
The ZXi and ZXi+ variants of the Swift ride on 15-inch wheels with 185/65 section tyres and the recommended tyre pressure is 29 PSI. Lower variants come with 14-inch rims fitted with 165/80 section rubber. These should provide a better ride.
Torsion beam suspension at the rear.

Handling & Dynamics
The Swift's stiffer suspension setup shows its true worth in the handling and dynamics department. Straight-line stability is very good for a car in this segment and occupants won't even know that the car is cruising at triple-digit speeds. Expansion joints on the highway do not unsettle it.
On long curves, the car holds its line well. Push the car on twisty roads and you will experience some body roll, but it's very well-controlled. The car changes direction without fuss and feels very sure-footed. Our test car came with 185/60 R15 Bridgestone Ecopia tyres, which provided enough grip for the power on tap.
Good dynamics along with precise steering and a sporty soundtrack make the Swift a fun car to drive. But we couldn't help thinking that a more powerful engine could have taken the experience to a whole new level.

Steering
The Swift gets an electric power steering, which is very user-friendly. It's light in the city and most owners will appreciate that. The compact dimensions of the car, light steering and a tight turning radius of 4.8 metres make the Swift very easy to drive in the city. At higher speeds, the steering weighs up well. There's no nervous feeling or twitchiness at all while cruising on the highways. On twisty roads, you will find that it is quick and precise. That being said, it doesn't relay much feedback.
One point to note is that the steering has a stronger return to centre action than some of the Maruti cars we have driven in recent times. It does need some input from the driver while taking on switchbacks, but still, it's a big improvement over the outgoing car.

Braking
The Swift is equipped with disc brakes at the front and drum brakes at the rear. The performance is as expected and the car comes to a halt without much drama. Under hard braking too, the car doesn't lose its composure.
The pedal feel is good too and there is a little bit of travel before the brakes bite.

Niggles & Problems
The Swift is likely to be trouble-free like most offerings from Maruti. We did not face any problems in our test car and do not expect owners to do so either. However, as is always the case, we strongly recommend extended warranty coverage.

Maruti Swift Exterior Images
The front is dominated by a large, glossy black grille that is flanked on both sides by LED projector headlamps with daytime running lights (DRLs). You get a new bonnet with a prominent shut line. The overall design is a lot more polarising than the outgoing car.
Like the front, the rear design is polarising too with strong character lines running across the hatch and cuts and creases on the bumper. Tail-lamps are new and stick out.
Prominent character lines on the sides are a "love it or hate it" thing. The front overhang is longer than the rear.
With multiple cuts and creases, the new Swift does not look as good as the outgoing car. That said, it looks a lot better in person than in pics.
The new Swift is 20 mm longer in length and 10 mm shorter in height compared to the older car. However, its width, wheelbase and ground clearance have remained the same.
Smoked headlamp clusters feature LED projectors with boomerang LED DRLs and halogen turn indicators. Yep, the headlamps have the 'follow me home' and 'lead me to vehicle' features.
Radiator grille gets glossy black honeycomb mesh detailing. Most of the vents are shut though. Horn discs are placed just behind the grille.
Front bumper extends above the radiator grille. It houses two foglamps and a slim air dam with vertical slats.
LED foglamps get black housings.
Fibre sheet under the car at the front to improve airflow. Ground clearance = 163 mm.
Flexible aero flaps ahead of the front tyres.
New clamshell bonnet gets prominent creases on the side and in the front.
Panel gaps are consistent all over the car but some shut lines could have been tighter. You can put a part of your finger under the bonnet even when it is latched.
Windshield washers are well concealed under the bonnet. The two washers shoot out water through 3 nozzles each. Total of 6 jets for you.
Body-coloured door handles get black request sensors on both sides, but the keyhole is only on the driver's side.
ORVMs are finished in glossy black. They are electrically foldable and have integrated turn indicators.
Wraparound character line starts from the bonnet shut line runs along the sides of the car and onto the hatch, just above the tail lamp.
ZXi+ variant comes with smart-looking 15-inch precision cut two-tone alloy wheels shod with 185/60 section tyres. Like others in the segment, the Swift gets disc brakes at the front and drum brakes at the rear.
Fixed aero flaps ahead of the rear tyres.
Subtle protrusion on the cladding of the rear wheel arch acts as a splash guard.
Partial plastic cladding in the front wheel arches while the rear is fuller.
Glass area is typical of Maruti. The sloping roof looks great but chews away some rear headroom. The window line rises toward the rear, which means the glass area isn't large to start with. Notice the sheer number of parts on the C-Pillar.
Sticker on the inside of the fuel flap to indicate its dietary preferences. A black plastic spill protector is provided below the fuel cap. Fuel tank capacity = 37 litres.
Luster Blue, Sizzling Red and Pearl Arctic White shades are available with a Midnight Black roof. No option of a sunroof here.
Short & stubby antenna located towards the rear.
Tail-lamp clusters get a black border. While the C-shaped pilot lamps and stop lights are LEDs, the reversing light and turn indicators are halogen bulbs.
Tail-lamp cluster sticks out at the back and on the side. Could have been better integrated with the hatch.
Tailgate gets a neatly integrated spoiler that houses the HMSL. Black windshield washer sticks out and could have been better integrated.
Hatch gets a prominent character line running across it. The "S" badge sits in the centre, while the "SWIFT" lettering is located on the left. No badge to depict the variant anywhere on the car. Rear wiper is provided only on the ZXi and ZXi+ variants.
Reversing camera is placed on the hatch and sticks out like a sore thumb. Could have been better integrated.
The bumper has a big number plate housing and houses 4 parking sensors with slim reflectors at both ends. Notice the prominent creases.
Tow hook and tailpipe are located on the right. Notice the bumper cutout where the exhaust peeps out.

Maruti Swift Interior Images
The dashboard is well put together and nicely finished with no harsh or rough edges, though the quality of plastics is not of Hyundai's level. This fresh dashboard design looks pleasant.
Driving position is user-friendly and the large windshield offers a clean view of the road ahead. Dash isn’t high – always a good thing for frontward visibility.
Typical Maruti leather-wrapped, flat-bottom steering with thumb contours and a piano black insert on the lower section. It is excellent to hold and gets tilt adjustment.
Audio and infotainment-related controls are located on the left spoke, while the right spoke holds switches for the cruise control system.
Telephony and voice command controls are placed behind the wheel.
Easy-to-read instrument cluster consists of a tachometer and speedometer with an MID in the middle. Analogue fuel and temperature gauges have been provided.
MID displays plenty of information like torque and power readings, accelerator and brake pattern and G force meter. You also get the usual driving information like average fuel economy, range, driving time, etc. You can also just have a blank display if you so wish.
It also features turn-by-turn navigation. Several settings can be changed through the MID. The door open indicator displays if the bonnet or tailgate is open too.
Chunky wiper and light stalks. Turn indicators have a 'lane change' feature, which makes them flash thrice when the stalk is tapped lightly. While automatic headlamps have been provided, automatic wipers have been left out of the feature list.
Standard chrome-ringed engine start button from the Maruti parts bin is located on the right of the steering wheel. Traction control switch sits next to it with the idling start/stop switch and headlight leveller below. Notice the sheer number of dummy switches in the console.
Side air-con vents are all-black and look dull. Air flow volume can be adjusted or shut.
Bonnet and fuel flap release levers are located below.
Like the dashboard, the doorpads get an all-black colour theme with a silver insert and identical detailing to the dashboard. Door handles are finished in chrome.
Standard Maruti console that we've been seeing for ages. It's an eyesore and doesn’t feel nice to use either – very utilitarian in design & feel. Only the driver's window gets one-touch up & down and anti-pinch functionality. Door mirrors are electrically foldable.
Silver insert adds a bit of contrast to the all-black doorpad. Front door armrests are padded and covered in fabric at the place where you rest your elbow.
Door pockets are not particularly wide. Can hold a 1-litre bottle and other small items.
Door sills aren't fat, which means less effort is needed to move your feet in & out of the car. No scuff plates provided.
Front seats are wonderfully shaped and provide good support. Side bolstering is healthy and there is sufficient padding. Seats are slightly towards the softer side but spending long hours in them shouldn't be a problem. They are wide enough for most occupants. Headrests are very tall and their cushioning is on the firmer side.
Manual 6-way adjustment for the driver’s seat, but you don't get lumbar adjustment. The lever to recline the seat feels loose and not so durable.
Only 4-way adjustment for the passenger's seat.
A close look at the upholstery pattern. Quality of this fabric is satisfactory.
Seatbelts are not height-adjustable. However, they are placed at a comfortable height and will suit most occupants.
While the A, B & C pedals are well positioned, the clutch is placed too close to the dead pedal.
ORVMs are adequately sized and offer a good view of the action behind.
IRVM is wide enough to cover the entire rear windshield, but the thick C-pillars and small rear windshield restrict visibility. Disappointingly, it doesn't get auto-dimming functionality.
Rearward visibility is poor. C-Pillars are thick & glass area is small. Thankfully, Maruti has provided 4 parking sensors in all variants and a reversing camera in the ZXi and ZXi+ variants.
Centre fascia is tilted toward the driver. Piano black panelling has been used around the infotainment system and A/C vents.
The touchscreen is very smooth to use and doesn't lag when you are going through its functions. It is one of the nicer units in the segment and comes with wireless Android Auto and Apple CarPlay connectivity.
With the Arkamys tuned sound system, there are 3 surround sense presets - Natural, Acoustic and Dynamic. All 3 are very distinct and offer a great listening experience.
Navigation is through Google Maps via Android Auto. You can opt for a split screen if you prefer.
System and vehicle settings can be adjusted through the head unit. Multiple alerts are flashed on the touchscreen. While there is an alert for the tyre pressure, a proper TPMS would have been appreciated.
Vehicle details such as instantaneous and average fuel economy, driving pattern, etc. are displayed on the touchscreen.
Reversing camera does not get adaptive guidelines.
A/C vents and controls have been placed below with a small readout. Physical buttons are so much easier to operate than touch-sensitive units while driving. These buttons are of good quality and operate with a nice click.
12V power outlet and USB port are located below the climate control system on the centre fascia. Both get covers.
A wireless smartphone charger is provided at the base of the centre fascia.
Center console gets a pair of cupholders. Nope, that's not rubber lining on the base.
Bird's eye view of the handbrake console. Sadly, no center armrest for the driver. A wrong omission by Maruti.
Gear lever looks sexy with a glossy black insert on the top and letters etched on it. It is soft and very good to hold. Throws are short and slick. Don't miss the leather boot and glossy black border around the console.
Shallow area below the handbrake can hold a small-sized smartphone.
Passenger side of the dash sports the same detailing as the  doorpad and a silver insert.
Glovebox is fairly sized, but it does not get cooling or illumination. It doesn't even get compartments.
Ambient lighting has been provided in the driver and passenger footwells.
A single cabin light only at the front, with no individual map lights either. If you’re going to give only one light in the cabin, it has to be in the center (just above the front seats) so both front + rear passengers can operate it. The cluster also houses the Bluetooth mic.
Sunvisors are economy-grade in design & feel. Passenger-side sunvisor gets a vanity mirror, but there's no cover or light provided, while the driver-side unit merely gets a flap to hold tickets.
Spring-loaded grab handle has been provided above the passenger door.
All variants of the Swift are equipped with 6 airbags.
Wide gap between the B-Pillar and the bench makes it easier to step in & out.
Door sill isn't excessively wide either, which means occupants do not have to carry their feet over the sill when entering or exiting the car. No scuff plates have been provided.
Like the front, the rear doorpads have a black colour theme. The silver insert and fabric insert on the armrest (seen at the front) are missing here. Bottle holders are smaller than the ones at the front and can hold only 500 ml bottles. There are no door pockets.
There is adequate legroom in the rear. The floor hump is prominent and the centre console takes up space.
Front seatbacks are soft and scooped out to liberate more knee room.
Rear seat can accommodate 2 adults and a child. It comes with 3-point seatbelts for all occupants but only 2 headrests. The seatbase is slightly raised in the middle where the third passenger sits. This means he has lesser headroom than the side occupants. Since there is no armrest, the 3rd passenger has a better backrest.
Rear seat gets hooks to park the seatbelts.
ISOFIX child seat anchors have been provided on both sides.
Seatback pocket is only on the left seat. It is not deep, yet adequately wide.
Spring-loaded grab handles above each passenger door have a damped action. No bag / coat hooks though.
Type A and Type C fast charging USB ports have been provided for rear passengers to charge their smartphones.
A slot has been provided at the top for keeping a smartphone.
Rear A/C vents get individual flow direction controllers but a common air volume controller. Notice the blank slot at the bottom of the console. Maruti could have provided a 12V power outlet here.
The boot's mouth is wide, but loading lip is high. 265 liters of boot space marks a decrease of 3 liters over the outgoing car.
Boot is suitable for carrying small to medium sized bags.
Parcel tray has a prominent recessed area + border to prevent things from rolling off.
One baggage hook and the boot light are on the left. Boot light has a switch to turn it on or off.
To increase luggage space, the rear seats can be folded down. Use this lever to unlock the seatback and fold it (there's one more lever on the other side).
Rear seat splits in a 60:40 ratio which allows selective folding if you need to carry a combination of cargo + passengers. However, the seatbase cannot be tumbled forward.
Folding the seatbacks gives you additional cargo capacity. It's not at all a flat floor though.
Tailgate gets full black plastic cladding on the inside. No cost-cutting here.
Hatch gets an electromagnetic release and request sensor. Only one slot has been provided on the right side to pull the tailgate down (outgoing car had one on the left as well).