Mercedes GLC SUV Review

Mercedes GLC SUV Pros
Great looks matched to solid build quality
Premium quality interiors, supportive seats, filled with technology
Adequate interior space and 620 litres of luggage-carrying capacity
Fast and competent petrol and diesel powerplants
The Mercedes 9-speed AT gearbox is now very good! And smooth too
Well-damped suspension offers mature ride quality
Fun to drive (unlike the last-gen GLC)! Very good handling, well-calibrated steering & excellent high-speed manners
Loaded with features such as seat kinetics, latest-gen MBUX, transparent bonnet & lots more
Impressive 15-speaker Burmester audio system
5-star NCAP rating, top-notch safety kit & a suite of electronic aids to keep you safe

Mercedes GLC SUV Cons
Expected to be even more expensive than the outgoing model! Old GLC 220d was priced between 82 – 85 lakhs on-road
More powerful 300d tune is sadly not offered on the new GLC. Period. We hope it is introduced at a later stage
Touch-type controls can take time to get used to. Physical buttons are gone! Even ORVM adjustment is touch-based & non-user-friendly
Back seat is more suitable for 2 healthy adults and a child. Not 3 healthy adults
Missing features such as cooled seats, passive keyless entry, head-up display, Level 2 ADAS, full-size spare tyre (has a space saver tyre) etc.
Small ORVMs with limited adjustment range. Clearly, form over function here
Heavier adults will find the front seats too snug
Suspension has a firm edge to it. That & the 19-inch wheels make potholes felt at low speeds

Introduction
The Mercedes-Benz GLC SUV has been one of the best-selling SUVs from the German luxury carmaker worldwide. In India too, the GLC has been one of the strong sellers in the company's portfolio with more than 13,000 units sold to date. The first-gen car came to the end of its life cycle earlier this year and as a result, was discontinued in India. Now, the company is gearing up to launch the second-gen GLC SUV in the country. The car will be locally assembled.
When it goes on sale, the second-gen GLC will be available in a single Avantgarde variant. The car is longer than the outgoing model with a longer wheelbase and more boot space. It has also got more powerful petrol and diesel engines. The petrol version (GLC 300 4MATIC) uses a 2.0-litre, 4-cylinder unit that puts out 255 BHP and 400 Nm. The diesel version (GLC 220d 4MATIC) is powered by a 2.0-litre, 4-cylinder unit that produces 194 BHP and 440 Nm. Both engines come with a 48V Integrated Starter Generator which adds up to 23 BHP and 200 Nm. Further, both units are mated to a 9-speed AT (9G TRONIC) and Mercedes' 4MATIC all-wheel drive system.

Mercedes GLC SUV Price & Brochure
Mercedes will announce the prices of the two variants of the GLC SUV later this week. Now, the C-Class sedan, with which it shares its platform and many parts, is priced between Rs. 60 - 66 lakh (ex-showroom Delhi). We expect the GLC SUV to be even more expensive.

Exterior
Design & Styling
The second-gen GLC SUV looks more like an evolution of the first-gen and uses Mercedes' family design language. It is clean with hardly any sharp cuts or creases.
Some notable features on the outside include new LED headlamps, radiator grille with a large central star, front bumper with a chrome skid plate, 19-inch, 5-spoke alloy wheels, wide side steps, panoramic sunroof, slim LED tail-lamps with a 3-dimensional look and rear bumper with a chrome skid plate with twin fake exhaust tips. The car is offered in 5 colour options. These include Mojave Silver (our test car), Nautic Blue, Selenite Grey, Polar White and Obsidian Black.
The GLC measures 4,716 mm in length (60 mm more than the outgoing car) and has a wheelbase of 2,888 mm (15 mm more than the outgoing car). While it is not a very large SUV, it certainly is not small and has a good road presence.

Build Quality, Fit & Finish
The GLC is built on the MRA 2 platform, which is shared with the C-Class. In typical fashion, the car feels solidly built. There’s very little flex in the body panels & doors. The body panel gaps are uniform and the overall fit & finish levels are excellent - as you’d expected of a Mercedes.

Wheels & Tyres
In India, the GLC comes with 19-inch, 5-spoke alloy wheels shod with 235/55 section tyres. The wheel and tyre combo fills up the wheel arches well and looks proportionate to the metal on top. The spare tyre is a T145/80 unit on a 19-inch steel space-saver rim.

Ground Clearance
Mercedes hasn’t specified the ground clearance of the GLC. However, it appears to be more than adequate for Indian conditions. Our test car had no issues tackling speed breakers and even some mild off-roading. Further, it comes with an Off-road Engineering Package, which gives an additional 20 mm of ground clearance.
Standard & Extended Warranty
All new Mercedes-Benz vehicles in India come with a three-year warranty. You can also purchase an extended warranty and we strongly suggest taking it.

Maintenance
Mercedes offers "Star Ease" maintenance packages for up to 10 years. You have the option of choosing from a Compact package or a Compact Plus. The Compact package covers all the major and minor periodic maintenance services as per the defined interval. The Compact Plus package offers all the benefits of the Compact Package and also provides replacement of brake discs and brake pads, both front and rear, wheel alignment, and balancing and replacement of wiper blades.

Safety
The GLC is equipped with all the safety features you’d expect in a car of this class. Some standout features include 3-point seatbelts for all five occupants, 7 airbags, Blind Spot Assist, Active Lane Keeping Assist, Car to X communication, Active Brake Assist, Active Parking Assist, 360-degree camera, Pre-Safe and Attention Assist.
The 2023 Mercedes-Benz GLC SUV has scored a 5-star safety rating in Euro NCAP crash tests.

Interior
Cabin Design & Quality
Step inside the cabin and you can immediately tell that the dashboard is taken from the C-Class. The design looks modern and contemporary. The dashboard is black with contrast stitching and silver inserts. Like the C-Class, the GLC gets pinstripes, which can be polarising. There’s a fully digital instrument cluster that stands out like a tablet, a large touchscreen head-unit in the middle that’s tilted towards the driver at an angle of 6 degrees and carbon-fibre detailing on the centre console. The roof liner is black.
Soft-touch materials have been used at various places and the interiors are solidly put together. There aren't any rough edges anywhere in the cabin. Like most Mercedes cars, the part quality is very good. That being said, the plastic on the dashboard where the pinstripes are, doesn’t feel top grade and when you knock on it, there is a hollow sound.

Space & Comfort
Ingress & egress are easy and you can just walk into the car without difficulty. The GLC is a tall car and it also has a long wheelbase, which translates to good space in the cabin. However, due to the shape of the rear seat, a tall and wide transmission tunnel and the centre console taking up space, only 4 people will be comfortable in the cabin. A fifth one would not feel welcome, especially on longer journeys.
The seats come with faux leather upholstery in Sienna Brown, Black or Macchiato Beige colours. Like other parts, the quality of the upholstery is good. The seats offer very good support. They have side bolsters, which give good lateral support. However, heavier folk will find these side bolsters digging into their backs. Both front seats get height & lumbar adjustment along with adjustable headrests and can slide back far enough even for tall occupants to feel comfortable. They get memory functions as well. What is sad is that these seats get heating, but not cooling - which is a big miss in a country like India.
The seatbelts are adjustable and leather has been used on the doorpads and centre console where the occupants of the front seats would rest their arms. This adds to the comfort.

Driving Position & Ergonomics
As mentioned earlier, the GLC comes with electrically adjustable front seats. The steering too is electrically adjustable for height and reach, which allows you to find a comfortable position with ease. You can sit high like you would in an SUV which will give you a clear view of the road ahead. You can also see the bonnet (many drivers like that). While the front and side visibility for the driver is fine, the rear visibility is compromised by the thick C-pillars and a small windshield. You will have to use the camera while reversing.
In the driver's seat, those who are used to Mercedes cars will be able to get acquainted with all the controls pretty quickly. The three-spoke, leather-wrapped steering is perfectly sized and nice to hold, but the horn pad is not easy to reach with your thumbs. The steering mounted buttons are touch type and the light / wiper stalk and gear lever are within easy access. A useable dead pedal has been provided as well. We’ll say that the ergonomics are sorted in this car.
The only real problem is the ORVMs. They are not very wide and have a limited adjustment range. Next, their adjustment switches are of the touch type with no feedback. So if you are not used to them, you might end up folding the mirrors while adjusting them.

Cabin Storage
There are many storage spaces in the cabin. You get a glovebox with a soft lining and doorpads that can hold a 1L bottle along with some other items. The centre console houses two cupholders and a wireless smartphone charging pad and two USB Type C ports at the base of the centre fascia. Under the centre armrest are two more storage compartments with two USB Type-C ports.

Air-Conditioning
The GLC comes with a multi-zone climate control unit. The A/C functioned very well to keep us cool. The system also gets an air purifier that has a stage 2 filter which detects and reduces NOx, CO and PM2.5.

Features
Unique & Noteworthy Features
The GLC comes loaded with features. These include keyless entry & go, a fully digitalised cockpit, panoramic sunroof, paddle shifters, USB Type C ports, cruise control, multi-function steering touch type operations, automatic climate control, three-point seatbelts for all occupants, ambient lighting, wireless phone charging, rear A/C vents and more.
The GLC SUV gets an 11.9-inch touchscreen head-unit with Apple CarPlay and Android Auto connectivity, inbuilt navigation and voice commands. The system also gets Mercedes Me connected car tech. Further, the touchscreen works as a display for the transparent bonnet feature that gives a live video feed of the ground under the bonnet on which the car is being driven and a view of the exact tyre position.

Audio System & Sound Quality
Mercedes offers an 11.9-inch touchscreen infotainment head-unit with the latest MBUX: NTG 7 telematics. The user interface is simple and easy to get used to and the display is crisp and clear. It's extremely smooth and seamless in operation. It also gets a finger scanner. It’s paired with a 710-watt Burmester 3D sound system with 15 speakers.
In terms of audio quality, it's very impressive. At any volume, the audio quality is commendable with great clarity and no vibrations or distortion.

Rear Passengers
Rear Seat Comfort & Space
The rear bench is placed at a fair height. You do not need to sit down in it. However, the side steps jut out a long way and hamper ingress & egress by touching your calves.
The rear seat is comfortable and the cushioning is on point - neither too hard nor too soft.  The seat is designed to accommodate three adults and comes with 3-point seatbelts and adjustable headrests for all 3 passengers. However, the hard backrest (due to the centre armrest) isn’t something one would look forward to experiencing. There is also a wide and prominent floor hump and the centre console takes up some legroom. Therefore, the bench is more suitable for 2 adults and 1 child rather than 3 adults.
The knee room at the rear is very good and there's a good amount of headroom as well. At 5'10", I had a good deal of room to spare while sitting behind my driving position. Even occupants over 6' in height will find the headroom satisfactory. Overall, the space is more than sufficient for most passengers. The backrest is also set at a comfortable angle. The under-thigh support is sufficient for most people, but taller occupants will find it too less for their liking. This is due to the rather short seat base. Rear passengers get a centre armrest with two retractable cupholders, seatback pockets, A/C vents, sun blinds and USB charging ports (Type-C).

Boot Space
The second-gen GLC SUV has a boot space of 620 litres which is 70 litres more than the outgoing car. Folding the backrest of the rear seat down gives the car more luggage capacity. The boot is equipped with a light, bag hooks, tie-down hooks for luggage and a retractable cover.

Driving the Mercedes GLC SUV 2.0L Petrol AT
On this drive, only the GLC 300 4MATIC was available. We will put up a post on the GLC 220d whenever we manage to get our hands on it.
2.0L petrol unit makes 255 BHP & 400 Nm.
This GLC 300 4MATIC is powered by a 1,999cc, 4-cylinder petrol engine, which generates 255 BHP and 400 Nm. The car has a kerb weight of 1,945 kg. This means it has a power-to-weight ratio of 131 BHP/ton and a torque-to-weight ratio of 206 Nm/ton.
The engine comes with a 48V mild hybrid system. The mild hybrid part of this is an integrated starter generator that sits between the engine and the transmission and takes over the role of the alternator and starter. It can also provide a power / torque boost. When quick acceleration is required, the electric motor helps by providing up to 23 BHP and 200 Nm of torque. It also helps with energy generation when it's not giving any output in terms of power / torque.
With your foot on the brake, press the engine start / stop button to fire up the engine. Immediately you'll notice the impressive refinement of the car. There is barely any noise or vibration felt upon starting or at idle.
Release the brakes and the GLC moves off the line calmly. The EQ boost (additional power / torque provided by the ISG) helps at low rpms and low speeds by adding a bit of pep. There is enough power and torque available at all times and you'll never have a problem keeping up with traffic. What's good is that the power is delivered seamlessly making the GLC a smooth and easy car to drive in the city.
On the open road, the GLC 300 4MATIC is a fast performer. Step on the accelerator and the SUV provides a good deal of excitement. Mercedes claims that the petrol can hit 100 km/h from a standstill in just 6.2 seconds! This sort of acceleration makes overtaking slower vehicles a breeze. Throttle response is good and the engine revs till 6,500 rpm, which is just short of the redline (6,750 rpm). In terms of cruisability, in 9th gear, the engine is revving at ~1,400 rpm while doing 100 km/h. This makes the GLC 300 4MATIC an effortless mile-muncher.
The 9G-TRONIC AT does a very good job in the GLC SUV. It is very smooth while upshifting, but we found the downshifts to be a little jerky. While the gearbox is not as quick as the ZF transmissions in BMWs on kickdown, it has a fair response time. It never seems confused and is usually in the correct gear that one would need. Paddle shifters have been provided for those who want to shift manually.
Apart from the default Comfort mode, there are 3 drive modes: Eco, Sport and Individual. These 3 modes alter the throttle response.
The Comfort mode is the default mode which is in between the middle of Eco and Sport modes. It works well in town and on the highway and offers a good balance between efficiency and performance.
In Eco mode, the throttle response is lazier and the gearbox shifts up earlier to maximise fuel efficiency. This mode provides the smoothest ride and honestly, with the power and torque that the engine produces, it is good enough to be used in the city as well as on the highway.
In Sport mode, it's the opposite. Even with a light dab of the throttle, the engine responds. On undivided highways, this is the mode to use to pull off quick overtakes. The transmission holds a gear for a longer time and the steering firms up too. However, using this mode in the city is not advisable as power delivery can get spiky.
Individual mode gives you the option to customise your driving experience to your requirements.

Noise, Vibration & Harshness (NVH)
As mentioned earlier there is barely any noise or vibration experienced as the engine cranks or on idling. At the same time, if you stand outside the cabin, the engine is loud and we felt it sounded like a diesel. That's a testament to the sound insulation of the cabin. Even while driving around, the engine is hardly heard in the cabin. It's only when you put the engine in Sport mode and get aggressive with the throttle that some engine noise is audible in the cabin.
Wind noise and road noise are well controlled even at 100-120 km/h.

Mileage & Fuel Economy
The GLC 300 4MATIC comes with an ARAI-certified fuel efficiency is 14.72 km/l. The car has an idling start-stop system thanks to the integrated starter generator which aids fuel efficiency. During our drive, the system worked seamlessly. The car has a fuel tank capacity of 62 litres.

Suspension & Ride Comfort
The GLC’s suspension is on the stiffer side. So while the ride over small potholes and uneven roads at city speed is absorbent, it’s not plush. Even so, no bumps are transmitted hard into the cabin. As the speed increases, the ride gets better. Even larger bumps are tackled with aplomb. The suspension works silently too.

Handling & Dynamics
As expected from a German car, the straight-line stability is excellent and occupants won't even know that the car is cruising at triple-digit speeds. Expansion joints on the highway do not unsettle it.
On long curves, the car holds its line well. When you push on twisty roads, the stiff suspension shows its benefits. There is very little body roll and the car changes direction without fuss. Mercedes has narrowed the gap to BMW considerably when it comes to handling. Our test car came with 235/55 R19 Continental Contact6 tyres, which provided enough grip for the power on tap.

Steering
The GLC SUV gets an electric power steering, which is very user-friendly. It's light in the city and most owners will appreciate that. The light steering and automatic transmission make the car very easy to drive in the city. At higher speeds, the steering weighs up well. There's no nervous feeling or twitchiness at all while cruising on the highways. On the twisty roads, it relays a good amount of feedback.

Braking
The GLC is equipped with disc brakes at the front and rear. The performance is strong and the car comes to a halt without any drama. Under hard braking too, the car doesn't lose its composure. Mercedes has equipped the GLC with Active Brake Assist.

Mercedes GLC SUV Exterior Images
Front sports the Mercedes family look. Large grille and DRLs help give the GLC a good road presence.
Rear features split tail-lamps connected by a glossy black strip.
Just enough character lines on the sides to keep the design interesting.
The new GLC SUV measures 4,716 mm in length, 1,890 mm in width and 1,640 mm in height with a wheelbase of 2,888 mm.
LED headlamp clusters get integrated LED DRLs that double up as turn-indicators.
Radiator grille gets vertical slats and a large central star. Bumper sports a wide air dam and chrome skid plate. Underbody is well-protected.
ORVMs get integrated LED turn indicators. Puddle lamps and cameras for the 360-degree camera system are located underneath.
No request sensor or keyhole on the door handles. To lock / unlock the car you have to use the keyfob or Mercedes Me app.
19-inch, 5-spoke alloy wheels look smart. They are shod with 235/55 section Continental Contact6 tyres.
Side steps jut out a long way and touch your calves when you get in or out of the car.
As is expected in a car of this segment, the GLC gets a panoramic sunroof.
LED tail-lamps with a 3-dimensional look.
Reversing camera retracts when not in use. The retraction function can be switched off through the infotainment head unit.
Bumper gets a chrome skid plate. The exhaust tips are fake. Actual exhaust pipes are located below the bumper.

Mercedes GLC SUV Interior Images
Interiors are well-designed and solidly built. Ergonomics are absolutely perfect with all controls falling easily to hand.
Large bold pinstripes on the front dash add a unique touch. They can be polarising though.
Steering wheel follows the design theme of newer Mercedes models and comes with an array of touch-type switches. It gets electrical adjustment for height and reach. Notice the paddle shifters behind the steering wheel.
Bright and clear digital instrument cluster is a pleasure to look at and displays all relevant information.
You can choose the theme of your choice.
Doorpad houses the seat and window controls and even the boot release. Switches for the mirrors have a touch-type operation. Two speakers are placed on each doorpad.
Mercedes-Benz branded scuff plates are backlit.
Front seats are comfortable and supportive with a host of electronic adjustments including under-thigh support. The headrests are adjustable too. Seats get heating function but strangely, no cooling.
Footwell is wide enough and the dead pedal is huge! It is positioned perfectly and can even accommodate large-sized shoes.
ORVMs could have been wider. Adjustment range is limited as well. Notice the blind-spot warning.
Auto-dimming IRVM is large enough to cover the rear windscreen. However, rearward visibility is restricted due to the thick C-pillars.
Centre fascia features 3 A/C vents and an 11.9-inch touchscreen head-unit that is tilted towards the driver by 6 degrees.
The home screen. Climate control display is at the bottom.
Music is played through 15 speakers. One can tweak the sound settings according to his preference. Audio quality is excellent.
A host of settings can be altered including the driver assistance systems.
Various apps can be accessed from the head unit.
Using the Mercedes Me app, one can monitor the status of the car and even start it remotely among other functions.
The GLC comes with an air purifier that has a stage 2 filter which detects and reduces NOx, CO and PM2.5.
One of the most interesting features of the GLC is the transparent bonnet. It gives a live video feed of the ground under the bonnet on which the car is being driven and a view of the exact tyre position.
Reverse camera gets adaptive guidelines. Camera quality is top class.
Opening the cover of the centre console reveals two cupholders, a wireless charging pad and two Type-C USB ports.
Under the armrest is a storage bin with a soft lining and two Type-C USB ports. Another cubby has been provided too.
Glovebox is medium-sized. It gets a soft lining on the inside.
Massive panoramic sunroof lets in a lot of light, making the cabin feel airy.
Ambient lighting is provided at various places in the cabin including the dashboard, A/C vents, all footwells, all doorpads, roof bezel and even storage spaces. One can change the colour of the lighting through the touchscreen head unit.
Rear windows get retractable sun blinds - a boon in the Indian summer.
Legroom is sufficient even for occupants with longer limbs. Notice the tall and wide floor hump.
Seatback has a comfortable angle. There is enough headroom for even taller occupants, but under-thigh support could be better.
Rear seat is more suitable for 2 adults and a child, rather than 3 adults. The seat base and backrest have some contours to hold you in place. Adjustable headrests and 3-point seatbelts have been provided for all occupants along with ISOFIX child seat anchors on both sides.
Wide centre armrest comes with retractable cupholders.
Boot can be accessed from the rear seat by folding the backrest of the middle passenger.
Rear air-con vents are provided. A small cubby is located below them.
Two Type-C USB ports have been provided for the rear passengers to use.
Massive 620-litre boot can easily accommodate luggage for a family vacation. Boot space has increased by 70 litres compared to the outgoing car.
A retractable cover has been provided to conceal the contents of the boot.
Space saver spare wheel and battery are located below the boot floor.
Bag hooks have been provided on both sides. There are also levers to fold the rear backrest.
Folding the rear backrests down gives you a much larger cargo capacity.
Tailgate can be closed electrically. You can set the opening height as well.