Skoda Slavia Review

Introduction
In a market where car manufacturers are now making even their hatchbacks look like SUVs, Skoda stands out with sedans like the Superb and Octavia in its portfolio. The new Slavia replaces the Rapid, which was based on the age-old A05 (PQ25) platform. Now, all the Skoda cars are based on the modular MQB platform including the Slavia which is based on the MQB-A0-IN platform. This platform is specifically made for India and is shared with the Kushaq. With this platform change, the Skoda Slavia is a full size bigger than the Rapid and now takes the fight to the Honda City and the Hyundai Verna. This car is the company's second offering under its 'India 2.0' project. Interestingly, the name Slavia has been taken from the bicycle brand that Laurin and Klement introduced in 1896, just a year after the 'Laurin & Klement' company was founded.
The Slavia is available in 3 trim levels - Active, Ambition and Style. There are two turbo-petrol engine options - a 114 BHP, 1.0 TSI with 6-speed MT and AT transmissions and a 148 BHP, 1.5 TSI with a 6-speed MT and 7-speed DSG. The 1.0 TSI engine is offered on all trims with the base Active variant missing out on the AT. The 1.5 TSI engine is offered only in the top-end Style trim. For the year 2022, Skoda is expecting 3 times the sales compared to 2021, with the major chunk of the numbers coming from the Kushaq and the Slavia. While the 1.0 TSI is expected to account for the majority of Slavia sales, Skoda is expecting 15% of the total sales to come from the 1.5 TSI. However, the absence of a diesel engine option means that Skoda will miss out on a major chunk of consumers that the competitors (Honda City and Hyundai Verna) are currently catering to.

Exterior
Design & Styling
The Slavia's mini-Octavia look works well and the car looks stunning in the flesh. According to Aditya, this is the best looking car in the segment, and honestly, I have to agree. The proportions are just right and none of the design elements seems to be screaming for attention. Very understated yet elegant at the same time, it is quite a head-turner on the road.
The car has sharp creases all over that give it a sculpted look. Some notable features on the outside are the Skoda crystalline LED headlamps and taillamps, LED DRLs and 16" alloy wheels. The car will be offered in 5 single-tone body colours. When it comes to size, it's larger than the 1st-gen Octavia and has similar dimensions to the Honda City.

Build Quality, Fit & Finish
As mentioned earlier, the Slavia is built on the MQB-A0-IN platform, which is shared with the Kushaq. This platform has been made specifically for the Indian market, which loosely translated, means that it is a slightly more affordable version of the European MQB platform. If you compare it to some of the brand's European cars, the Slavia's doors, bonnet and boot lid don't feel as heavy. The doors make a bit of a clunky sound rather than a satisfying 'thud' on shutting. The Rapid seemed to fare better in this aspect. That being said, the Slavia does not feel flimsy at all. There’s not much flex in the body panels and the car feels fairly well built. The body panel gaps are tight and the overall fit & finish are just as you'd expect from a European car.

Wheels & Tyres
The Style variant gets funky 16" dual tone alloy wheels with 205/55 section tyres, which look proportionate to the metal on top. They fill up the wheel arches well. The Active variant gets 15" steel wheels with hubcaps, while the Ambition variant comes with 16" silver alloy wheels.

Ground Clearance
On paper, the Skoda Slavia has a healthy unladen ground clearance rating of 179 mm, which is the highest in its segment.

Standard & Extended Warranty
The Slavia comes with a 4 year / 100,000 km warranty as standard, with an option to extend it to 6 years / 150,000 km (please be dead sure to take this). Skoda is also providing 3 years paint warranty, 6 years corrosion warranty, 2 years parts warranty and 2 years battery warranty. 3 different service and maintenance plans for up to 4 years / 60,000 km are available. Extended RSA programs up to 9 years are also being offered. Golden rule when buying premium cars and especially Skodas, thanks to the horror after-sales stories we hear = invest in the maximum possible extended warranty available.

Safety
Safety features are in abundance in the Slavia. For starters, you have ESC, ABS, multi-collision brake, brake disc wiping, hydraulic brake boosting and traction control system as standard. All variants are also equipped with XDS and XDS+, which is a part of the Electronic Differential System and improves the front wheel traction. It reacts when the load on the inner wheels is reduced while cornering and slows down the wheels under a reduced load, preventing them from spinning. Apart from these, safety features include 3-point seatbelts for all five occupants, 6 airbags, TPMS, ISOFIX child seat mounts, rear parking sensors, reversing camera, auto headlamps, auto wipers and hill-hold assist.
Skoda claims that the car's safety systems have not only been tested for generic crash tests like homologation and the GNCAP @ 64 km/h front deformable barrier but are also designed and tested to work in crash scenarios based on internal VW standards. The side and curtain airbags have been designed to meet a crash scenario of side pole crash, which is higher than GNCAP standards. The curtain airbags offer head protection to the front as well as rear passengers. The Slavia has been designed to meet European pedestrian safety norms. Currently, the Indian regulatory requirements only mandate protection for lower leg & head impact; the Slavia will reduce upper leg injuries too.

Interior
Cabin Design & Quality
Step inside the cabin, and you can tell that the dashboard is Octavia-inspired. The Slavia has a dual-tone black and beige theme with a contrasting golden brown strip running across connecting the round air-con vents placed on either end of the dashboard. The cool bit is that this strip also has an ambient light in it. There are some nice design elements like the portion around the touchscreen has sweet detailing and the instrument cluster housing gets sporty Skoda embossing on the sides.
You won't find any soft-touch plastics here, but the interiors are well put together. There aren't any rough edge plastics in places that one would usually touch and everything seems to be well finished in the cabin. However, the plastics don't feel premium and the cabin lacks the sturdy feel of some of the other Skoda cars.

Space & Comfort
Sedans are meant to be spacious. The Slavia is the widest in its class and also has the longest wheelbase, both of which translate to good space in the cabin. However, the Honda City does feel more spacious and airy on the inside.
The seats in the Style variant of our test car were finished in dual-tone leather. While there is no lumbar adjustment, they offer good overall support and with the right amount of cushioning, spending long hours here shouldn't be a problem. Both front seats get height adjustment and can slide back far enough even for tall occupants to feel comfortable. Apart from this, you have a soft center armrest that can slide forward as well for those needing the adjustment. The door pads too host leather-wrapped armrests which are useable. Overall, the front seats are nice to be in and most users will find the experience to be pleasant.

Driving Position & Ergonomics
In the driver's seat, you'll get acquainted with all the controls pretty quickly. The two-spoke, leather-wrapped steering is perfectly sized and lovely to hold, while the horn pad is easily reachable with your thumbs. The steering itself is adjustable for height and reach, which makes finding the perfect driving position that much easier. The frontal view is good even with a low seating position.
The basic ergonomics of the Slavia are pretty much perfect. Everything is exactly where you would expect it to be and within easy reach of the driver.

Cabin Storage
There are a good number of storage spaces in the cabin. For starters, you get a well-sized ventilated glovebox. The doorpads are pretty accommodating as well and can hold a bottle along with some other items. There are elastic bands on both front units to keep some papers in place - a Skoda simply clever feature. At the base of the center fascia is a storage compartment a with a wireless smartphone charging pad. Cupholders and cubby holes have been provided in the center console as well. Additionally, there is a spot on top of the dashboard to place a deity. The center armrest has a usable deep storage area. The driver also gets a storage compartment to the right of the steering wheel. There is a ticket holder on the front windshield, while the Ambition variant gets a storage spot for sunglasses. The front seatbacks have deep pockets as well as smartphone holders for rear passengers to use. The rear center armrest also gets a couple of cupholders.

Air-Conditioning
The Ambition and Style variants get a "Climatronic" climate control unit with a touch control panel. Air vents have been provided at the rear as well. The Active variant gets a standard HVAC unit. On a hot day in Goa, the a/c functioned very well to keep us cool. A special mention of the ventilated seats that were the cherry on the top of the cake. The Slavia also gets an 'Air Care' feature, which is essentially an inbuilt air purifier. Skoda claims that the purifier catches fine dust particles in the cabin, prevents allergens (like pollen) from entering the cabin and absorbs any unpleasant odours.

Features
Unique & Noteworthy Features
In today's day and age where features are more like bragging rights, getting the right mix in a budget is quite important. The Slavia seems to be packed with all the necessary ones and some more. It has a a sunroof, 10-inch touchscreen infotainment head-unit with wireless Apple CarPlay and Android Auto connectivity and an 8" virtual cockpit MID. It also gets ambient lighting, connected car technology, wireless phone charging, ventilated seats, rear a/c vents, two USB-C charging sockets at the rear and a subwoofer for added bass.

Audio System & Sound Quality
A 10" touchscreen infotainment head-unit is offered on the top two variants - Ambition and Style. The base Active variant gets a 7" touchscreen head-unit. The top-end variant also comes equipped with Wireless SmartLink, which allows for smartphone mirroring. There is a "MySkoda Connect" smartphone app available as well through which navigation can be accessed. The coordinates are provided by a GPS tuner that has been pre-installed in the car. Downloads from the online app store (ICE gets some local apps as well). The system also features a dual tuner and Wi-Fi hotspot. In addition to MP3 and WMA, this system can play AAC and FLAC media files.
Coming to the sound, this is an 8-speaker (4x50W bass speakers + 4x20W tweeters) + 1x100W subwoofer system with a total output of 380W. The subwoofer is placed in the boot in the spare wheel and there's an amplifier placed under the front passenger seat. The sound quality is very good for the segment. It does feel a little bass-heavy at times, but you can always fine-tune the settings to your personal liking for the best experience.

Rear Passengers
Rear Seat Comfort & Space
Getting in and out of the rear seat isn't difficult. However, the rear bench is placed on the lower side. Hence, you will have to sit down in it rather than just slide in. Just like the front, the rear seats are comfortable and the cushioning is on point - neither too hard, nor too soft.
A journey with two passengers in the rear with the center armrest in between will be comfortable. With three passengers abreast, it will be very tight for sure. While you get 3 adjustable headrests and 3-point seatbelts for all 3 passengers it's better if the third occupant is a child and not an adult. The floor hump is wide and prominent too.
There's a good amount of knee room and headroom for the adults in the rear seat. At 5'10", I didn't have any difficulty sitting behind my driving position. Only occupants well over 6' in height might find the headroom tight. If you had to compare, the Honda City and Maruti Ciaz fare better in this area, but the Slavia isn't uncomfortable at all. Overall, the space is more than adequate for most passengers. The backrest is also set at a comfortable angle. However, I would have liked a little more under-thigh support. Rear occupants get a/c vents and a couple of USB-C ports for charging their smartphones.

Boot Space
The Slavia has a boot space of 521 litres which is the largest in its segment. The rear seat is split in a 60:40 ratio. Folding the backrests down gives the car a luggage capacity of 1,050 litres.

Driving the Skoda Slavia 1.0L Turbo Petrol MT
1.0L turbo-petrol engine makes 114 BHP @ 5,000-5,500 rpm and 178 Nm @ 1,750-4,500 rpm.
The Slavia is powered by a 999cc, turbocharged, 3-cylinder, direct-injection petrol engine that puts out 114 BHP and 178 Nm. This engine is paired with either a 6-speed manual (MQ200-6F) gearbox or a 6-speed torque converter automatic (AQ250-6F). The top-end Style variant also gets the 1.5L, 4-cylinder TSI engine which is used in the Kushaq. It's matched to a 6-speed MT and a 7-speed DSG. The engine produces 148 BHP & 250 Nm. In comparison the Honda City's 1.5L naturally-aspirated, 4-cylinder engine makes 119 BHP and the Hyundai Verna's 1.0L, 3-cylinder turbo-petrol engine makes 118 BHP. The Verna's 1.5L, naturally aspirated, 4-cylinder engine produces 114 BHP. There is no diesel engine on offer. It's very sad that VAG has decided not to make its 1.5L TDI BS6 compliant. Those with high usage will be disappointed, especially with petrol now costing over 100-bucks a liter!
The Slavia's 1.0 TSI is the same engine that we saw in the Rapid 1.0 TSI, however in a different state of tune. Right off the bat, the key difference is that in the Slavia, it makes more power. However, while the Rapid was meant to be driven hard, the Slavia is tuned more towards comfort.
Throttle response is satisfactory and the Slavia moves off the line with ease. The engine is tractable and while it isn't dead at low rpms, but there is slight turbo lag. If you really want, you can pull from under 1,000 rpm, but it's only when you cross 1,500 rpm that the motor starts feeling more comfortable. The turbo kicks in at ~2,000 rpm and if you're used to a strong turbo kick, you will be slightly disappointed by the soft power delivery of this unit. Overall, the city driveability is good and you can move about in the city clearing speed breakers in second gear with ease. Combined with a light electric power steering, good ergonomics and excellent all-round visibility, the Slavia is city-friendly.
It is important to keep in mind is if you let the revs drop too low at crawling speeds or over speed breakers, the engine has a tendency to stall. It is easy to stall until you get used to its power delivery characteristics. When it stalls though, all you need to do is press the clutch pedal all the way in and the engine fires back up. This is essentially an extension of the engine auto start/stop feature.
Out on the highway is where you will appreciate the mid-range and the top-end of the engine. Past the 2,000 rpm mark, the engine pulls nice and clean all the way till 5,500. If you're pushing the car hard, this is where you would want to be. A bonus here is that the engine doesn't sound coarse at high revs, in fact, it sounds quite sporty. Even beyond 5,500 rpm, the top-end isn't flat and the engine keeps pulling all the way till 6,600 rpm. Highway cruising is a comfortable affair too in the Slavia and it can do triple digit speeds quite easily. The 6 gear ratios will help you extract maximum fuel efficiency from this motor. For a quick overtake, however, from cruising speeds, you might have to downshift to 4th to get the engine in its powerband. All in all, while this engine may not be lightning quick, it is definitely fast and smooth. Skoda claims a 0-100 km/h acceleration time of 10.7 seconds with this manual transmission.
This 6-speed MT is somewhat of a mixed bag. The throws are short and the gates are well defined which makes it easy to use. However, the gearshifts are on the heavier side and not as slick as the Honda City or even the Maruti Ciaz for that matter. The clutch is quite springy and feels heavy, which is not what you would expect in a petrol sedan. The travel range is on the longer side too which makes it not so user-friendly in bumper-to-bumper traffic.

Noise, Vibration & Harshness (NVH)
The 1.0L TSI is overall a refined motor. Despite being a 3-cylinder engine, the vibrations and excess noise are well controlled. On the move, things are good at regular rpms. It's only when you rev up that the 3-cylinder thrum is obvious. But it’s an enjoyable, sporty note The road and tyre noise are also kept in check. On the other hand, wind noise did creep in at 90 km/h, but it was not excessive.
The 1.5L TSI is overall refined. It's a lot smoother than the 1.0 TSI which has some 3-cylinder vibrations. All the vibrations are well controlled and so is the engine noise inside the cabin. At high revs, the engine note sounds sporty.

Mileage & Fuel Economy
If driven with a light foot, the 1.0 TSI MT should give you acceptable FE. Turbo-petrol cars are very sensitive to throttle input though; drive it hard and you'll see the tank needle drop fast. To aid the fuel efficiency, you get Start/Stop system that shuts off the engine when the car is stationary and the gear position is neutral and the clutch pedal is released. Pressing the clutch pedal restarts the engine automatically.
ARAI numbers.
1.0 TSI MT - 19.47 km/l
1.0 TSI AT - 18.07 km/l
Skoda has given the 1.5L Slavia Active Cylinder Technology. When cruising calmly on the open road, the ECU shuts off cylinders 2 and 3 to reduce fuel consumption. This 2-cylinder mode will lead to good long distance FE, that is if you drive calmly (which is tough in the TSI). While we never felt the cylinder activation / deactivation happening, we did see an "ECO" sign on the MID which might be signaling its action.
ARAI numbers.
1.5 TSI MT - 18.72 km/l
1.5 TSI AT - 18.41 km/l

Driving the Slavia 1.5L DSG Automatic
1.5L, 4 cylinder turbo-petrol engine makes 148 BHP @ 5,000 - 6,000 rpm and 250 Nm @ 1,600 - 3,500 rpm.
The 1.5L engine is shared with the Kushaq and we were mighty impressed when we drove it the last time around. This engine gets 4-stroke positive ignition direct injection with active cylinder technology. It's offered only in the top-end Style variant with either a 6-speed MT or a 7-speed DSG AT. During our media test drive in Goa, we got to sample the DSG AT variant. On paper, the engine produces 148 BHP & 250 Nm which is much more than Honda City 1.5's 119 BHP and Hyundai Verna 1.0's 118 BHP. These figures put it in a different league altogether.
Fast and effortless at any legal speed, this powertrain compliments the ride and handling characteristics of the car beautifully. The combo makes the Slavia an effortless mile-muncher if fuel prices aren’t a concern.
Slot into D mode, take your foot off the brake pedal and the Slavia DSG slowly creeps forward. This will be highly appreciated in heavy traffic conditions where you can drive with just the brake pedal. With a light foot, the gearbox moves up the ratios pretty quickly. Impressively, you won't feel these shifts as the transition is butter smooth. While the automatic transmission makes the Slavia very easy to drive in the city, when crawling in slow traffic (1st - 3rd gears), you will experience a little jerkiness, which is a typical DSG trait. In the city, the 1.5 motor's healthy bottom end helps you get around effortlessly. The throttle response is good and the Slavia rolls smoothly. Add to that, the direct-injection and turbocharger ensure that the engine isn't lethargic at any speed. There's always enough power on tap to accelerate or overtake quickly.
Out on the highway is when things go from good to great! This is easily among the most fun-to-drive sedans for 2 million bucks. You'll find yourself addicted to flooring the throttle whenever there's an empty stretch of road. Outright performance is excellent and the strong mid-range takes care of all the overtaking you need to do. Downshifts are quick (not as fast as upshifts though) and the gearbox responds well to throttle inputs. The 7th ratio gives the Slavia DSG long legs on the highway. And touring you must do - this car is built for long road-trips. In terms of cruisability, the 1.5 TSI can run at triple-digit speeds all day long without breaking into a sweat. The engine spins at a relaxed ~1,900 rpm at 100 km/h. In summary, the 1.5 TSI DSG is a jewel of a combination that will keep you happy at low revs & high, and in the city as well as on the highway. Other than its reliability woes, this is one of the best AT gearboxes sold in India.
IMO the 1.5L TSI sounds great even at high revs. It has a very sporty tone to it which is addictive too. If you are continuously driving hard and / or in ‘S” mode, your passengers might complain about the sound though.
Tap the left paddle for a downshift and manual mode is engaged. The ECU blips the throttle to match the revs, and holds the gear till near the redline. This gets addictive, especially during overtakes! However, even in manual mode, the DSG will upshift above ~6,250 rpm and also downshift below ~1,000 rpm. We feel this is on the conservative side. Manual mode will also ignore wrong gear selections which put the engine out of the above rpm ranges. Long hold the paddles to revert back to auto mode.
Cruising around in D mode, one won't even notice the gears being shifted. They are damn smooth. The kickdown response time is quick enough and you will never feel that the gearbox is hunting for gears either. It's in the right ratio almost all the time. When you are in the mood to drive the car aggressively, engage Sport mode by pushing the gear lever down once. In S, the gearbox downshifts to keep the car in the power band, holds the ratios longer and lets the punchy midrange do all the heavy lifting required. Out on the open road, you will find it hard to resist the urge to go hard on the throttle. The Slavia is simply brilliant to drive!
On the flip side, we have scarily serious concerns over the DSG's long-term reliability. Just search on Team-BHP and you will see story after story of DQ200 failures & breakdowns. Skoda insists they have fixed the problem, but we aren't convinced at all. This gearbox has inherent design defects IMHO. Some BHPians who can't resist the DSG have mentally relegated themselves to 2 breakdowns over 8 - 10 years of ownership. If reliability is your topmost criteria, you should pick the 1.0 with a torque-converter AT, or consider another car model altogether.

Suspension & Ride Comfort
The Slavia comes with a McPherson strut suspension at the front and a twist-beam rear axle. It rides on 16-inch rims and is shod with 205/55 R16 tyres. The recommended tyre pressure is 33 PSI all around with two people on board. Under most driving conditions, the Slavia's ride quality is compliant. At low speeds going over some rough roads, you will appreciate the absorbent nature of the suspension as it keeps you comfy. Body movement is controlled well and the suspension soaks up small potholes with ease. Big potholes do register themselves sharply in the cabin though.

Handling & Dynamics
The Slavia's road manners are pretty sorted. The straight-line stability is great and the car feels extremely steady cruising at speeds of 100-120 km/h. Long road trips should be pretty comfortable in this sedan.
Get to some twisty roads and the Slavia won't disappoint. The light front end makes it easy to attack corners. There is a bit of body roll, but it is well controlled and doesn't feel excessive even when pushing the car hard. This allows you to carry more speed into corners. There's a hint of understeer, but the Slavia manages to hold its line nicely. Our test car was equipped with Goodyear Assurance Triplemax 2 tyres and they worked fine for the power on offer.
The 1.5L TSI does feel a bit stiffer than the 1.0L TSI as the suspension has been tuned to better suit the extra weight in the front. The ride, though not plush, is still compliant. Even over bad roads, it doesn't feel uncomfortable. As the speed increases, the ride gets better.
The slightly stiffer suspension setup of the 1.5 TSI makes it even more capable in the corners than the 1.0 TSI.

Steering
The EPS is light at parking & city speeds which is now the market's preference. For daily driving, this steering works just fine. While it does weigh up nicely as the speed increases, there's no feedback from the steering and it does feel very disconnected. For a car that has good power and also a chassis to complement that power, the steering just feels like the oddball here.

Braking
In this segment, only the Hyundai Verna top-end 1.0 turbo petrol gets all-wheel disc brakes. Just like its sibling Kushaq, the Slavia gets discs at the front and drums at the rear. The brake pedal is well calibrated and feels sharp to use. The braking is powerful and very confidence-inspiring.

Niggles & Problems
Skoda is the first name that pops to mind when we speak of unreliability and bad after-sales experiences. Truth is, many owners have suffered multiple breakdowns, especially with the DQ200 DSG gearbox. Do note, that the Kushaq has had its
share of problems. So don't expect a Toyota or Maruti kind of ownership experience over 5 - 10 years. Take the extended warranty without a second thought, and be sure to get the car serviced on time. For its part, Skoda is trying to improve its brand image with maintenance packages etc., but the dealers are the same, the cars are complicated & parts are expensive. Skoda's 4-year maintenance package costs Rs. 24,499, which is a good deal as it includes the cost of spares, engine oil and labour charges.
No insulation sheet under the bonnet.
Classy gear shift indicator in the MT variants.
ECO' indicator comes up on the MID when you are cruising at easy revs. The Slavia 1.5L has Active Cylinder Technology, which shuts down cylinders 2 and 3 in the interest of fuel efficiency.

Skoda Slavia Exterior Images
The front follows the latest design language of Skoda and bears resemblance to the Octavia.
Clean-cut edges at the rear. Big 'S K O D A' lettering may not be to everyone's liking though. While a smaller "Slavia" badge sits on the left, there's no badging anywhere on the car to indicate the variant or the engine option. .
Side profile is sleek with the roof sloping down for a coupe-like design. All elements are proportionately sized.
The car looks great from this angle and has a good stance too. Multiple creases give it a muscular look.
The Slavia measures 4,541 mm in length, 1,958 mm in width (including mirrors) and 1,507 mm in height with a wheelbase of 2,651 mm.
Sharp looking LED headlamp clusters feature hexagonal LED modules for the low beam and main beam with turn-indicators placed on the inside and L-Shaped LED DRLs. Cool crystalline detailing at the bottom stands out.
Big butterfly radiator grille gets a chunky chrome border and vertical slats with piano black inserts. It will surely divide opinions.
Front bumper features a wide air dam with a black honeycomb mesh grille.
Halogen fog lamps sit on the bumper just below the headlights and have black housings with honeycomb mesh detailing and a chrome insert at the top.
Plastic underbody protection at the front does not stretch back a long way. Yes, the Slavia's ground clearance of 179 mm is the highest in its segment, but given our road conditions, full underbody protection would've been appreciated.
Prominent creases on the bonnet add to the muscular look of the car.
Front fenders house classy looking piano black inserts with chrome "SKODA" lettering.
Body-coloured ORVMs with integrated turn indicators.
Just look at the number of creases on the body! Also, note how tight and even the panel gaps are.
Chrome inserts have been provided on all door handles, with request sensors on both front doors.
Glass area is adequate for the size of the car. Window line with chrome insert rises to form a nice kink close to the C-pillar.
16" dual-tone alloy wheels shod with 205/55 section tyres look really good and fill up the wheel wells nicely. Active variant gets 15" steel wheels.
Even the top-end Style variant does not get rear disc brakes. Still, braking performance is strong.
Just like the other cars in the segment, the Slavia does not get a panoramic sunroof. Instead, you get a regular unit, which is adequately sized.
Contrast black sharkfin antenna sits at the end of the roof section.
Split tail-lamp clusters feature crystalline detailing, C-shaped LED pilot and brake lamps, with halogen units for the turn-indicators and reversing lights.
Boot lid gets a prominent lip at the top. Gives a hint of ducktail spoiler.
Rear bumper gets a black insert with honeycomb mesh detailing and reflectors on either side. 3 parking sensors have been provided.
Twin exhaust pipe is on the left in the 1.5 TSI.
Apart from the Crystal Blue colour of the car pictured above, the Slavia is available in four other shades - Candy White, Brilliant Silver, Carbon Steel and Tornado Red. Here it is in the Tornado Red shade, which along with the Crystal Blue is exclusively offered in the Indian market.

Skoda Slavia Interior Images
The dashboard design is modern and looks contemporary. There are no soft-touch plastics here, but it is nicely finished.
Top-quality two-spoke steering wheel with piano black and chrome inserts. 2-spokes make for a love it or hate it design (Aditya & I like it, GTO doesn't). It has tilt and telescopic adjustment which is of great convenience. Nice sounding dual disc horns, but not the classic Skoda wind tone that you get in the Octavia.
LHS buttons are for audio & voice commands, while the ones on the RHS are for the MID. Scrollers have a knurled finish.
Left light / indicator stalk also houses the cruise control options. Very busy! On the right is the wiper stalk. The Slavia is equipped with auto wipers which are on by default.
Both automatic models - 1.0 TSI AT and the 1.5 TSI DSG get paddle shifter. These are plastic and feel sturdy.
Just like all other Skoda cars, the engine start/stop button is placed on the right side of the steering column.
8" digital cockpit displays plenty of information. Instrument cluster gets digital temperature and fuel gauges and shows the time, outside temperature and distance-to-empty. Notice the nice detailing around the display.
Skoda's virtual cockpit gets multiple display options that can be selected by using the buttons on the steering. You can select what information you want to be displayed primarily like the speedometer or the tachometer or you can even have a minimalist display of just the speed in km/h. You can also choose to have the driving statistics displayed in between the tachometer/speedometer. The MID also shows exactly which door is open and also lets you know if the boot or the bonnet has been left open.
Embossed "Skoda" lettering on the side of the instrument cluster looks sporty.
Round a/c vents get a chrome border and silver inserts. Notice how the golden brown strip extends into the a/c vent.
Typical European headlamp and foglamp controls. The Slavia gets automatic headlamps. The all-black knob here looks too rudimentary & boring. It could have done with a silver metal highlight.
Just below, you have a useful storage compartment. It also has a cardholder.
Dual-tone theme continues on the doorpads as well. The door handles are finished in chrome and get a piano black insert around it. All four doors get a reflective tape at the bottom.
Usual set of window and mirror controls. Driver's window gets auto up & down with an anti-pinch function. Just like in the Kushaq, we found this plastic panel to be low rent.
Door pockets can hold a water bottle and some other stuff. There's a recess on the inside to carry long items too.
A string has been provided (on both front pockets) to keep standing items in place.
Door sill is not wide. Would've loved to see an aluminium 'SLAVIA' branded scuff plate here.
Leather seats are comfortable and offer good support.
A close look at the perforated leather seat upholstery. Perforated material is mandatory for the seat's cooling function. The quality of materials used is good.
The driver seat misses out on lumbar adjustment, but back support is fine. The seat offers a good adjustment range (fore & aft and height) and even a 6-footer will be comfortable.
Even the passenger seat gets height adjustment!
Center armrest has a soft leather cladding with white stitching. It is adjustable and placed at a comfortable height.
Seatbelts aren't adjustable for height. Still, the position is neutral and no one will have an issue.
A, B, C pedals are well spaced out.
Here's a look at the pedals for the automatic variants. The dead pedal is set at a comfortable angle. However, I wish it was a little wider at the top.
20W tweeters are placed on the A-pillar. Do note the nifty ticket holder on the windshield.
We feel that Skoda has gone for form over function with the ORVMs. We would have liked them to be a size bigger in terms of width. They should have extended out more and you will find yourself craning your neck when joining the main road. Notice how the driver can see the blinker from the inside (like in many other VAG cars).
IRVM gets a slim frame and an auto-dimming function. It is wide enough to cover the rear windshield. Headrests (including one for the 5th occupant) do restrict visibility to some extent.
The rearward view isn't that bad. The thick C-pillars do restrict visibility though.
The center fascia hosts a 10" floating touchscreen at the top. There's a recessed area on top of the dashboard to place an idol.
A look at the home screen of the tablet-like floating touchscreen head unit. I liked the display and it is smooth to use. Wireless Android Auto and Apple CarPlay have been provided. The 8-speaker sound system will keep owners happy.
The system displays the usual driving data. Vehicle status (including low tyre pressure warnings) are also shown. 'Valet Mode' lets you hand over the vehicle to a driver with restricted access. You get a notification on the touchscreen when you switch off the traction control by pressing the button next to the touchscreen. Lastly, the reversing camera doesn't have adaptive guidelines.
A closer look at the central a/c vents. Personally, I don't like the knurled silver finish on the adjustment slider - looks a bit tacky.
The a/c control panel is touch-sensitive. Would've preferred physical buttons here as you need to take your eyes off the road to toggle through the functions.
Just below the a/c controls, is a wireless charging pad.
The Slavia is equipped with Type-C USB ports. There's not one regular USB port in the car. I feel that adding Type-C USB ports is not a good idea as most people still use regular USB cables today.
The 6-speed MT has short throws and well-defined gates.
Buttons for the idling start / stop system, central locking and ventilated seats are placed around the gear shifter.
Non-slip base for the cupholder in the center console. The driver can open a bottle placed here with one hand. 12V power socket and small rectangular storage bin are located just ahead.
Beneath the center armrest is a storage compartment.
A close look at the detailing on the dashboard. There's a rough-textured plastic on top. Below that, there is the golden brown plastic strip that also houses a white ambient light strip. Next to it, you get a piano black surface, below which, is the glovebox. While there are multiple elements here, they do look good together.
This medium-sized glovebox is ventilated but not illuminated. It has a cardholder and a couple of coin holders too.
The roof bezel holds two individual map lights, the sunroof controls and the Bluetooth mic.
Sunvisors have a basic design, yet they don’t feel flimsy. Driver-side unit merely gets a flap to hold slips (no mirror or illumination), while the passenger-side piece gets a vanity mirror. However, there's no cover or light provided.
A total of 6 airbags, including dual front airbags, side airbags (no seat covers please) and curtain airbags.
The sunroof does the job well of keeping the cabin bright and airy. While the roofliner is of better quality than in the Kushaq, it still doesn't feel very premium.
Lower edge of the dashboard is rough and poorly finished. Not something we're used to seeing in Skoda cars.
Rear doorpads have an identical theme to the front ones. The 50W rear speakers are housed in them. The front and rear doors, both, open in a triple-stage action.
Legroom is healthy and even two 6-footers can sit one behind the other comfortably.
A look at the maximum and minimum legroom for rear passengers.
At 5'10" I was pretty comfortable sitting behind my driving position. There's enough headroom and legroom here, but the under-thigh support could've been a little better. The backrest is set at a comfortable angle and the armrest is at a comfortable height too.
The center armrest is wide and soft and also has two cupholders.
The rear seat has nice contours for support. While three 3-point seatbelts and three adjustable headrests have been provided, the rear seat is better suited for 2 adults and a kid (rather than 3 healthy adults). If it is two overweight adults, even a kid cannot be accommodated. Also, the middle area of the backrest protrudes (due to the armrest) and the seat base is elevated in the centre. The headrests have a firm compound.
Top tether for the child seat (there are two of them).
The glass area is adequate and rear passengers won't feel claustrophobic. The beige roofline makes the cabin feel airier.
Both front seats have deep seatback pockets and - uniquely - smartphone pockets for rear passengers to use. Very nifty!
Two Type-C USB charging ports are provided below the simple rear vents. Wish Skoda had provided at least one Type-A port which is more widely used today.
All 4 doors have spring-loaded grab handles above them. The rear units get coat hooks.
The floor hump is wide and prominent. This coupled with the rear air-con means the middle passenger will prefer to put his feet on either side of the hump.
The rear cabin lamp is located right above the rear seats. It has two individual LED lights.
At 521 liters, the Slavia has the biggest boot space in the segment. The loading lip is low and the mouth is wide.
Folding the rear seat down gives you 1,050 liters of cargo capacity.
The area near where the gooseneck hinges for the boot retract is very much exposed. You can even see the seatbelt mechanism for the rear seats from here. Skoda should've figured out a way to cover this up.
Spare is a 16" rim with a 205/55 section tyre. Subwoofer is located inside the spare wheel, while tools are housed in a Styrofoam casing inside the spare wheel well.
A single boot lamp is placed at the top. The exposed metal is quite an eyesore though.
Boot lid gets partial cladding on the inside.