2023 Tata Nexon.EV Review

Introduction
The Tata Nexon EV has been the best-selling EV in India for a while now. This is because it is one of the country's most affordable "proper" electric cars. The company has put more than 50,000 Nexon EVs on Indian roads since its launch in 2020. The car was available in a "Max" variant as well with a more powerful motor and higher capacity battery which enhanced its performance and range. This broadened the Nexon EV's appeal as it addressed the problem of range anxiety to an extent.
In 2023, Tata aims to build on the success of the Nexon EV and Nexon EV Max with an updated version of the car. For a start, the company has renamed the car to 'Nexon.EV'. Next, it has gotten rid of the "Max" moniker. Instead, we get 'Medium Range' and 'Long Range' variants. Then, the updated car gets the cosmetic changes and features that we have seen on the 2023 Nexon Facelift, which we reviewed earlier this month.
It also comes with a new Gen II Permanent Magnet Synchronous AC motor which is capable of revving up to 16,000 rpm, delivering 106.4 kW (143 BHP), which is 2 BHP more than the erstwhile Max. It also has a flat torque curve over a wider speed range - extended by 750 rpm. Additionally, it gets paddles to adjust the regeneration levels.
The car has an ARAI-certified range of 465 km for the Long Range and 325 km for the Medium Range which is a slight improvement over the outgoing variants. You can expect a real-world range of ~270 km for the Long Range variant.
Among the significant EV-specific features added are Vehicle-to-Load (V2L) technology which allows you to power various gadgets and appliances (load up to 3.3 kVA) and Vehicle-to-Vehicle (V2V) charging, which allows you to charge another compatible EV with your car (@ 5 kVA).
Coming to safety, the Nexon.EV gets the same features as the 2023 Nexon Facelift such as 6 airbags, ESP, 360-degree camera, blind view monitor, SOS call, ISOFIX child seat anchors and hill hold control are available.
The Nexon.EV is offered in Creative, Fearless, and Empowered trim levels. All trim levels are available in 3 colour options: Pristine White, Daytona Grey (our test car) and Flame Red. Additionally, the Creative trim gets a 'Creative Ocean' shade, the Fearless trim gets a 'Fearless Purple' shade and the Empowered trim gets 'Empowered Oxide' and 'Intensi-teal' shades.

2023 Tata Nexon.EV Exterior Review
Front end is identical to the 2023 Nexon facelift except for an EV-specific bumper and DRL light strip that runs across the face of the car.
Rear end is also identical to the 2023 Nexon facelift except for the bumper.
No changes on the sides except for the ".EV" badges on the front door.
The Nexon.EV measures 3,993 mm in length, 1,811 mm in width and 1,616 mm in height with a wheelbase of 2,498 mm. The Medium Range and Long Range variants have an unladen ground clearance of 205 mm and 190 mm, respectively.
Multiple cuts and creases can be seen all over the body.
LED headlamps and fog lamps with an air curtain next to them. Notice the detailing on the housing is different compared to the ICE-powered Nexon.
LED DRL strip runs across the face. The Nexon.EV also gets welcome and goodbye functions that play a pattern on the DRLs when you unlock the car.
Air dam gets black & green vertical and slanting slats. Brushed aluminium insert runs low on the bumper.
Healthy amount of underbody protection at the front.
Both front doors sport a ".EV" badge finished in blue.
16-inch alloy wheels are identical to the 2023 Nexon Facelift. 215/60 MRF Wanderer Ecotread tyres with low rolling resistance are not suitable for an enthusiastic driving style. Long Range variant gets disc brakes at the rear as well.
Socket for the regular charger on the top and one for the faster charger below.
These orange high-voltage cables are a sore sight. Considering our road conditions, these wires should definitely have been better protected & concealed.
Rear lighting is identical to the 2023 Nexon Facelift.
Rear bumper gets a brushed aluminium skid plate with vertical slats.

2023 Tata Nexon.EV Interior Review
Dual-tone interiors are themed according to the trim (persona) opted for.
Our Empowered variant had a grey dashboard with white leatherette and a silver insert.
A look at the passenger side of the dashboard. You have a hard plastic panel on the top followed by a brushed silver strip. The detailing on the panel connecting the A/C vents has two patterns that crossfade into each other. Below, you have a leather insert with contrast stitching.
Leatherette-wrapped two-spoke steering wheel with a flat bottom and silver insert is taken from the 2023 Nexon Facelift. It comes with a backlit "T" badge and buttons. The light colour will result in it getting soiled very easily.
Level of regeneration can be adjusted using paddles behind the steering wheel. While pulling the one on the right increases the level, the one on the left can be used to decrease it.
A customisable 10.25-inch fully digital instrument cluster is taken from the ICE-powered Nexon. However, it features some EV-specific readouts.
Among the readouts are battery & regeneration levels, throttle level, histogram and energy flow. Map projecting is very useful.
Notice how the range changes with the drive mode.
Start-stop button is carried over from the outgoing Nexon EV.
The door pad design is identical in design to the 2023 Facelift. The white leatherette insert in the armrest area is colour-coordinated with the leatherette on the dashboard.
Ventilated front seats are draped in white & grey leatherette and get contrast blue stitching. They provide good under-thigh and shoulder support and have a healthy amount of side bolstering to keep you in place on twisty roads. The cushioning is firm and should be comfortable over long distances.
A closer look at the seat upholstery. The backrests get a silver insert in the middle which looks very classy.
Centre armrest is draped in grey leatherette with contrast blue stitching.
The footwell is wide and the pedals are well spaced out. A wide and useable dead pedal has been provided.
Nexon.EV branded floor mats. The charging flap release lever is placed in the driver's footwell.
The centre fascia of the top variant houses a 12.30-inch floating touchscreen at the top. There are a lot of elements used on the dashboard which includes piano black, soft touch leather and brushed silver bits, but what some people would really appreciate is the lack of chrome elements.
12.30-inch Cinematic HD touchscreen head-unit by Harman has excellent resolution and touch response. It comes with Android Auto & Apple CarPlay connectivity and Tata Voice Assistant (Hey Tata), Amazon Alexa, Siri (Hey Siri) and Google Assistant (OK Google). It can understand 200+ native voice commands in 6 languages: English, Hindi, Marathi, Bengali, Tamil and Telugu. The standout feature is the "Arcade.ev" suite which gives users access to 15+ apps for music, news & podcasts, sports & games, video & entertainment and weather. List of apps include Jio Pages, Dash Radio, Pocket Casts, Radioline, Trebble FM, TuneIn Radio, Gaana Jio Saavn, Jio Games, FRVR, Beach Buggy, Amazon Prime, YouTube, YuoTube Kids, ESPN, Disney+ Hotstar, Eros Now and Accuweather. Like earlier, it comes with ZConnect connected car technology.
Output from the JBL 9-speaker 320W RMS audio system is extremely impressive. There are plenty of tweaks and options that you can play around with for the best sound experience.
It comes with multiple presets.
Kids Sleeping in Back" turns down the audio and focuses the output on the front seats.
You can choose the time you want to see the charging status animation.
You can set the discharging rate as well.
Below, you have a touch-sensitive panel for A/C controls. It’s finished in piano black. At the top are the buttons to lock / unlock the charger and to engage hill descent control among others.
12V power socket and USB port are located at the base of the centre fascia. They are joined by a 45W USB Type-C fast charging port. Rear passengers get one too.
Gear selector is taken from the 2023 Nexon Facelift. The rotary switch has been replaced.
Drive modes can be selected via a rotary switch. Electronic parking brake and auto hold switch are placed next to it.
Like the front, the rear door pads get a dual-tone theme. There is a stylish glossy black grab handle and soft leatherette insert on the rear door as well, but it does not extend to the area where one will rest his/her elbow. A tweeter & speaker on each door.
Rear seats get identical upholstery to the front units.
Due to the bigger battery pack, the floor height has been raised and one sits with their knees a little higher compared to the regular Nexon.
Roofliner is white. No cabin lamp for the rear passengers.
12V power outlet is placed just behind the rear seat on the left.
At 350 litres, the boot space is identical to the Nexon EV Max.
JBL subwoofer is placed in the boot.
Boot lamp along with 2 bag hooks on the left and 2 on the right. No 12V power outlet here.
Like other Tata cars, the Nexon.EV comes with a puncture repair kit that can be strapped in the corner of the boot.
The 15A charger that you get with the car takes ~15 hours to charge the batteries from 10-100%. Best to charge it overnight (at home) or when parked at the office (during the day).
Spare is a 16-inch wheel shod with 215/60 section tyre.

Driving the Tata Nexon.EV Long Range
The Permanent Magnet Synchronous Motor puts out 143 BHP.
The Nexon.EV is powered by a Gen II electric motor that claims to be lighter than its predecessor by 20+ kg. It has 30% lesser magnets. The new motor delivers 106.4 kW (143 BHP) which is 2 BHP more than the Nexon EV Max. The 40.5 kWh battery pack is carried over from the Max.
Driving an EV is quite a unique experience and recent EVs have all been impressive. Push the engine start button with your foot on the brake pedal and you'll hear nothing, although the car is "alive" now. There are four transmission modes to choose from: P, D, R and N. Engage D, lift your foot off the brake pedal and the car crawls forward. This will be highly appreciated in heavy traffic conditions where you can drive with just the brake pedal.
Driving in the city is a pleasant experience. The accelerator pedal's response is linear and not snappy (especially in 'Eco' mode). Passengers will appreciate how smooth the drive feels, without any jerks caused by gearshifts or any engine sounds. It is an incredibly refined experience.
Floor the accelerator pedal and you'll be greeted with instant power / acceleration. This is the beauty of powerful electric motors. The car is quick and has abundant torque right from the get-go. Tata claims a 0-100 km/h time of 8.9 seconds and a top speed of 150 km/h, which are believable figures.
Out on the highway, the Nexon.EV is fantastic. An advantage of a powerful electric motor is that if you need to perform a quick overtake, there's no need to wait for a downshift or be in the engine's powerband. Just bury the accelerator pedal and you're off! You'll hit silly speeds with ease and not even realise it due to the lack of drama (engine noise etc.). That being said, single-gear EVs don't have that higher-end punch that geared turbo-petrol cars do. Keep in mind that if you drive hard, the range drops drastically. This is also why you will see EVs that are driving long distances, stick to the middle lane and cruise at 80-100 km/h (which is the best cruising speed for the current lot of EVs). We already told you that the Nexon.EV Long Range variant has a realistic range of ~270 km. Get aggressive with the A-pedal and you'll see the range drop significantly. This sensitivity to driving style is more like turbo-petrols rather than turbo-diesels which are so forgiving.
Getting up to cruising speeds is an easy affair and the absence of any sound means you will reach triple-digit speeds without realising it (it's only when the speed warning chimes sound that you know you're doing 80 km/h and 120 km/h).

Drive Modes
There are 3 driving modes to choose from. They're mapped specifically for different driving styles.
City Mode: The default mode. The car always restarts in this mode, no matter what mode you last drove in. It's great for driving in the city as well as on the highway. Strikes a good balance between power and economy.
Eco Mode: The mode to engage when you want the maximum range. The throttle response is dumbed down, which actually results in a smoother drive in the city (less of that "torque-pull" effect). Power comes in more gradually when you ask for it. While there's enough grunt for day-to-day driving or cruising on the expressway, when you need to pull off a quick overtaking manoeuvre, you will want to engage one of the other modes.
Sport Mode: The mode when you really want to have fun. Floor the A-pedal in Sport mode and watch the traction control warning light flash in the instrument cluster. In this mode, throttle response is sharper and the car just feels more eager to get a move on. However, it can feel too peaky for city driving and also eats up the battery faster. Use "Sport" when you're looking for fun on expressway runs.

Regenerative Braking
There are 4 levels of regenerative braking which can be adjusted using the paddles placed behind the steering wheel. We absolutely love adjustable regen settings as we can tune them to suit our mood. At level 0, there is no regeneration. On levels 1 and 2, there's obviously lesser resistance when you lift off the accelerator pedal. Driving on level 3 enables maximum regeneration. Engine-braking lovers will appreciate driving with regen at the maximum level. You can also do
one-pedal driving
in many situations. However, do keep in mind that the car will never come to a complete halt. It will keep crawling without any throttle input.

Noise, Vibration & Harshness (NVH)
There is no engine noise at all. The only sound coming is a faint whine from the electric motor at high revs. With no gearshifts & minimal mechanical parts, there are no jerks or vibrations. On the highway, tyre noise starts creeping into the cabin at 80 km/h. You'll hear it more because there is no engine sound to drown some of it out. Around 90 km/h, we could hear some wind noise as well. Again, more noticeable because there is no engine sound.

Range
Tata claims a range of 465 km with the new 40.5 kWh battery pack. However, these numbers are very subjective and the real-life range solely depends on how you drive the car. ~270 km should be doable IMHO. Can go lower, depending on how you use the accelerator. We await real-life reports from BHPian owners of this car.

Charging
The Nexon.EV gets the industry-standard CCS 2 charging port. A 7.2 kW home charger which can be installed at your home or office, can charge the 40.5 kWh battery pack from 10-100% in 6 hours. If you're travelling somewhere, you can use the portable charger in the boot to charge the car from any 15 Amp socket (the larger 3-pin sockets used for ACs and fridges), which would take about 15 hours to charge from 10-100%. In comparison, the 30 kWh battery of the Nexon.EV Medium Range takes 10.5 hours to charge with a 3.3 kW AC charger. Do note that in all EVs, the initial 0 - 80% charging happens quicker... the final 81 - 100% takes more time. The last option is the 50 kW DC fast chargers that you will find at some of the charging stations. This would fill up your car's battery from 0-80% in 56 minutes. GTO thinks a 15A charger is all that 99% of owners will need -
his article on the same.

Suspension & Ride Comfort
The car gets a MacPherson strut suspension at the front and a twist-beam with dual-path strut suspension at the rear. It rides on 16" alloy wheels that are shod with 215/60 section tyres. The recommended tyre pressure is 34 PSI. Like most fossil-fuel cars converted to electric, the Nexon.EV's suspension has been stiffened up to cope with the extra weight due to the heavy battery pack and other equipment.
At low speeds, the ride is firm, but not harsh. Smaller bumps are not felt, but the larger ones and deeper potholes do make their presence felt in the cabin. As speeds increase, the ride improves significantly. Overall, we will say that the ride of the Nexon.EV is compliant, but not plush.

Handling & Dynamics
The Nexon.EV's straight-line stability is very good and the car doesn't feel nervous even when the speedometer crosses 100 km/h. Undulations on the road and bumps do not affect its composure. The stiffer suspension and 50:50 weight distribution have endowed the car with good handling characteristics. Its center of gravity is low and its body roll is well controlled. The grip from the MRF Wanderers is adequate for most drivers. However, push the car hard through a series of fast corners and they start losing grip. Enthusiasts will want to upgrade to stickier rubber.

Steering
The electric power steering is one of the nicer units around. It is light at city speeds and weighs up sufficiently as the speed increases. The EPS isn't lifeless and does give you some feel of what the front wheels are up to. At higher speeds, it inspires confidence.

Braking
While the Nexon EV MR (medium range) comes with disc brakes at the front and drums at the rear, the Nexon EV LR (long range) gets an all-wheel disc brake setup. This provides excellent stopping power. Emergency braking situations are handled well and the car is brought to a halt from high speeds effectively. Besides, the car is equipped with ABS + EBD, corner stability control, disc brake wiping, hydraulic fading compensation, panic brake alert and after-impact braking.