2023 Tata Harrier Review

Introduction
Even if you don’t follow automotive news or any form of content and aren’t interested in cars at all, there’s a good chance that you’ll still know about the Tata Harrier. That’s the kind of hype and popularity around this SUV. Great styling, solid build and a strong road presence make this a hard car to miss on the road. It was launched in January 2019 and a facelift was introduced in 2020 with a bunch of changes as per the feedback received from customers. Now, in 2023, Tata Motors has given the Harrier a second facelift.
Given the popularity of the Harrier, this facelift was much awaited as the competition in this segment has gotten stiff and Tata had to bring its SUV up to speed. So, what all is new in this 2023 facelift? For a start, there have been changes to the exterior design to make it look more modern and futuristic. Then there are some changes to the interiors as well and a few changes to the mechanicals of the car. Lastly, Tata has also upgraded the driver assistance system and added some features. While all this has been done, Tata has tried to keep the true essence of the Harrier intact and hopes to attract a wider audience. How does all this come together in the 2023 Harrier? Keep reading to find out.

Tata Harrier Price & Brochure
The Harrier is offered in 4 variants or ‘Personas’ as Tata likes to call it – Smart, Pure, Adventure and Fearless. Since the ‘#DARK’ edition has been a huge success for Tata, it will be available right from the launch of the new Harrier on the Adventure and Fearless variants. An additional "+" variant is also available on the Adventure and Fearless variants with some extra features. The Harrier is available in Lunar White, Ash Grey, Pebble Grey, Coral Red, Seawood Green (Adventure variant only) and Sunlit Yellow (Fearless variant only) body colours. The interior colour theme depends on the variant opted for. The prices of the different variants of the Harrier facelift will be revealed on October 17, 2023.

2023 Tata Harrier Exterior Review
Front end feels brand new. There’s some resemblance to the previous design, but the face now looks very modern and futuristic. There’s no chrome at the front except for the "T" logo in the middle.
Rear still reminds you of the outgoing Harrier, but now you get connected tail-lamps which has become the trend these days. There are different types of materials that you will find here, but no chrome except for the badging.
Not a lot has changed on the sides. The car looks very similar to the pre-facelift version.
The Harrier does look very handsome in person and this Sunlit yellow shade with blacked-out roof and wheels sure grabs attention on the road. Build quality is solid and the car feels very robust. Interestingly, as many of you may know, the fact is that Tata hadn’t sent the Harrier for the GNCAP crash tests. Now with the addition of driver assistance features, and some changes, Tata believes that the car would fare well at the upcoming Bharat NCAP crash tests.
With the styling changes, the Harrier has grown in dimensions compared to the pre-facelift version. It measures 4,605 mm in length (+7 mm), 1,922 mm in width without ORVM (+28 mm) and 1,718 mm in height (+12 mm). The wheelbase remains the same at 2,741 mm.
Massive headlamp cluster has been replaced by a sleeker unit. You now have an LED projector headlamp at the top and an LED fog lamp with cornering function below. They’re both placed in a piano black housing.
It gets an air curtain to direct air towards the wheel well.
Big talking point on the new Harrier is the design of the grille and the air dam at the bottom. You get parametric detailing on the grille which will divide opinions. Some like it, some don’t. IMO, it looks good in person and makes the car stand out from the crowd. The grille and the air dam are separated by a piano black strip that connects the two headlamps. On top, you have the LED DRLs connected by an LED strip. The strip in the middle is not a DRL but is connected to the pilot lamp function. As you can see with all the lights on, the DRL is dimmer and the LED strip in the middle is illuminated. Also note that the Harrier facelift now gets front parking sensors.
The Harrier gets a welcome function that makes the DRLs and the LED strip glow when you unlock the car.
Glow pattern is slightly different when you lock the car.
Bonnet design remains the same and looks sharp.
Like the outgoing car, the facelift also gets a healthy amount of underbody protection. However, we did notice there’s an additional cover where the exhaust flex pipe was earlier exposed. As you can see, the cover is pretty low and can scrape over some bumps. We found ourselves being extra cautious on a bad patch of road to avoid scraping this part. Tata has not revealed the unladen ground clearance of the Harrier facelift.
Gloss black ORVMs are integrated with turn-indicators and also house cameras for the 360-degree surround view.
Doors now carry "HARRIER" lettering, although it’s pretty small and doesn’t really stand out. Very minimalistic. Must say, very Jeep-like.
Body-coloured door handles get request sensors on both front doors.
The pre-facelift Harrier was offered with 16, 17 and 18-inch wheel options. Now, you get 17-inch alloy wheels (235/65 section tyres) on the Smart(0), Pure(0), and Adventure variants. 18-inch alloy wheels that you see here shod with 235/60 section tyres on the Adventure+, Adventure+A, Fearless, and Fearless+ variants. Tata is also offering 19-inch wheels on the #DARK edition cars which are shod with 245/55 section tyres.
These 18-inch wheels get aero inserts made of plastics for better aerodynamics. The good thing is that these inserts are so well integrated into the design that it’s hard to tell. Looks nice.
There used to be a Harrier-badged chrome insert here which used to look very aftermarket. Thankfully this part is all black now and gets a glossy finish.
Black roof with panoramic sunroof and sharkfin antenna.
Camera for the ADAS sits behind the IRVM.
Tailgate is now powered and gets gesture opening and closing. Notice that the LED bar connecting the tail-lamps is not a part of the stop lights. You get two reversing lamps at the bottom along with rear fog lamps. No variant badging here. You get the "HARRIER" lettering in the middle.
Just like the connected DRLs at the front, the tail-lamps also have a glowing pattern during unlocking and locking.
Detailing on the rear windshield of the lioness and her two cubs has been reworked (reference image).
New tail-lamps have a very sharp design and look edgy.
Odd choice - use of gloss black for the skid plate on the lower part of the bumper.
Housing on the side of the rear bumper holds the rear fog lamp, reversing lamp and a reflector. There’s also an opening below to aid aerodynamics.
While the car feels solid and the surface paint looks good, the finish on the edges is bad in many places. We found this on multiple cars and someone who is very particular about paint finish will find this annoying.
The electronic tailgate request sensor is now placed next to the reversing camera. The problem is that it’s a tiny button that’s not visible. You will find people fidgeting around to find it.

2023 Tata Harrier Interior Review
Step inside the cabin and it feels very familiar, yet modern. On this Fearless variant, you get a black dashboard with neon inserts on this Sunlit Yellow paint. Other variants get interior themes based on the personas or variants.
New, 4-spoke leather-wrapped steering wheel gets an illuminated Tata logo in the middle and a piano black insert at the bottom. As you can see the display is not aligned with the buttons on the side. The steering is nice to hold and is of perfect size. The buttons on the left are for telephone controls and voice commands, while the ones on the right are for the MID and cruise control. Note that this manual variant doesn’t get adaptive cruise control and the lane keep assist button on the right bottom is not active yet. Tata is still in the final stages of fine-tuning the system and will probably introduce it next year. One of the most notable changes in the Harrier is the switch to electric power steering from a hydraulic unit.
Also new in the Harrier facelift is this 10.25-inch fully digital instrument cluster. It has a very crisp display and the colour contrast is also very good which makes it very easy to read. It has 3 customizable block designs. You can have a digital speedometer display on one side and other options on the remaining two blocks. Or you can have a digital speedometer with a tachometer around it and different types of information on either side. Or you can have a traditional separate speedometer and tachometer display with information in the middle.
MID also displays plenty of information like trip info, distance to empty, instant FE, average FE, diesel exhaust fluid level and quality, driver assist features info, instantaneous power and torque, TPMS and even a G-Force meter.
A very usable feature of the MID is this map projection. Through Android Auto or Apple CarPlay, you can mirror the navigation display on the MID. How cool is that! You can have the entire screen as the map display or have it in the middle as shown in the image or you can have turn-by-turn navigation as well if that’s what you prefer. Note that for Apple CarPlay, you have to use Apple Maps for projection. Google Maps can be projected via Android Auto.
A look at the new materials near the side AC vent. The plastic insert below houses the engine start-stop button. There’s a piano black strip below which also has an ambient light strip and further down you get a leather insert with contrast neon green stitching.
A,B, C pedals are well-spaced and easy to operate like the previous car. There is however no space for a dead pedal, so you will have to place your foot on the floor below the clutch. OBD port has been shifted to the right and is exposed (the previous car had a cover – reference image).
Doorpad follows the black theme of the dashboard. The design is same as before.
Only the driver-side window gets an auto-up and down feature. Tata could’ve given his feature for all the windows.
Seats have been carried over and are draped in leather with contrast neon stitching. They offer very good bolstering and are wide enough to accommodate larger users. Anyone taller than average will find the under-thigh support to be short though.
Driver’s seat is 6-way powered and gets 3 memory settings with a welcome function too. Like the outgoing car, lumbar adjustment is manual.
Both front seats are ventilated and the passenger seat gets 4-way power adjustment.
Front seatbelts are now adjustable for height - a welcome addition.
ORVMs come with blind-spot warnings.
A look at the center console. Some BHPians had complained about the center console fouling with their left knee while driving and it was speculated that the leather insert would help in that aspect. However, the leather insert is higher up and doesn’t make any difference. So, be sure to spend some time in the driver’s seat before finalising the buying decision.
New speaker placed on the top of the dashboard.
Right on top, you have the big 12.3-inch touchscreen infotainment system. This is an updated version of the unit we saw in the Red Dark edition and has slimmer bezels and the thickness of the screen is less. It also has a 3-block design and a similar colour palette as the MID. Hence, the display is crisp and easy to read. There is no lag while operating the touchscreen and all the options are easily accessible.
The Harrier gets an inbuilt air purifier and AQI display. You can also operate the dual-zone climate controls through the touchscreen. Tata has upgraded the 9-speaker JBL sound system to a 10-speaker system. This and the new tuning truly elevates the listening experience. You also have a bunch of preset modes to select from that offer music listening experience in different settings like a concert, room, cinematic experience, classical music setting, etc. This is similar to the Sony system we saw in the Mahindra XUV700. The Harrier gets wireless Android Auto and Apple CarPlay connectivity.
10 ADAS features were introduced in the Red Dark edition, and the Harrier now gets Adaptive Cruise control in the automatic variants. Manual variants get other features like Autonomous Emergency Braking, Rear Cross Traffic Alert, Blind Spot Assist, High Beam Assist, Lane Departure Warning, etc. You can even set the forward collision warning system sensitivity. Now that the tailgate is powered, you can access some of its settings from the touchscreen including the tailgate height (6 levels). Not a wide range of colours, but you can still set the ambient lighting from the touchscreen.
360-degree camera system is very useful and the display quality is very good.
360-degree camera system also doubles up as a blind spot display when you use an indicator. While the touchscreen infotainment is a very nice unit that’s loaded with features, one gripe we had with it was the sheer amount of reflection. Just look at the reflections on the screen in this image.
Dual-zone climate control has been introduced in the Harrier facelift. Also new is this touch-sensitive panel for AC controls. It also has controls for the fog lamps, hazard lights, tailgate control, central locking and 360-degree camera view.
Ambient light strip runs below this panel. Also, you get this new leather insert below with contrast neon stitching. The panel below is finished in piano black.
Below, you will find a regular USB port and a fast-charging 45W Type-C USB port. You also get a wireless charging pad below. Getting your phone in the slot isn’t very easy.
While you had the terrain selector on the earlier car, now you get a rotary knob with a display on top. The Eco drive mode button is placed on the left and the Sport drive mode button is placed on the right. Below you have the hill descent control button.
A look at the new manual gear lever. There’s no chrome here, and it’s the same one we saw in the new Nexon. IMO it looks a bit dull, and Tata could’ve done something interesting here. Behind the shift lever, you have the electronic parking brake and auto hold switch.
Further back you have cupholders and a center armrest.
Under the center armrest, you get a small storage box with a 12V charging socket along with a regular USB port and a type-C charging port. This storage box has a cooling vent.
A close-up of the detailing on the passenger side of the dashboard.
The roof bezel now holds the switches for an emergency call and a breakdown call next to the sunroof control switch.
Panoramic sunroof spans the length of the cabin and lets in a lot of light.
The Harrier facelift comes with 6 airbags as standard and the top-end Fearless+ variant gets an additional driver knee airbag.
The rear seat is wide enough to accommodate 3 adults and you get 3-point seatbelts for the 3 passengers, but only two adjustable headrests.
Legroom is generous and two 6-footers can sit one behind the other in reasonable comfort. With the front seat in my 5'10" driving position, I had about 5" of knee room to spare.
New on the Harrier are these winged headrest cushions. You can fold the sides for better head support. These are very comfortable to use and available only on the Fearless variant and above. We hope they’re also made available at the dealer level as an accessory for buyers of lower variants.
Rear passengers get a manual sunshade.
We’ve mentioned Tata’s QC issues in the past and some inconsistencies prevail in the Harrier as well. The plastic trim near the ISOFIX anchor came off after folding the seat.
Rear passengers get a mobile holder with a Type-A USB port and a Type-C USB port at the bottom.
Ambient lighting has also been provided along the sunroof.
A look at the black roofliner.
Boot space has increased by 20 litres to 445 liters.
Tata has removed the storage area underneath the floor from the previous car to increase the boot space.
Tools and tyre puncture kit have been placed in a slot just behind the rear seats.
Boot space can be increased to 815 litres by folding the rear seats.
The Harrier now comes with a powered tailgate. Plastic around the button isn’t finished properly.
Subwoofer has been placed in the boot.
Lifting the boot floor reveals the filling cap for the AdBlue tank.
Luggage hook has been provided on the right and you get just one halogen boot lamp. It’s pretty dim and we’d have liked it if Tata used an LED lamp here.

Driving the Tata Harrier 2.0L Diesel 6-speed MT
Fiat-sourced 1,956cc diesel engine that produces 168 BHP & 350 Nm is carried over.
With the facelift, Tata hasn’t made any major changes to the engine or transmission. So, if you’ve driven the pre-facelift Harrier, you will notice that the characteristics are the same. This is a fantastic engine that offers a punchy mid-range and has been very popular with buyers.
The diesel moves off the mark effortlessly. As is typical of big turbo-diesel engines, the 2.0's low end is superb & overall driveability is good. The engine doesn’t feel dead at low speeds, and you can quickly get up to speed with a dab of accelerator. Driveability is very good, and the engine is city-friendly. 2nd gear test over a speed-breaker? Easy as pie. You can even take off from a standstill in 2nd gear with a slight clutch slipping. You won't be using the gear shifter too much in the city and depending on the traffic density, you could use either 2nd or 3rd like an automatic. There is some lag below 1,500 rpm, but it’s not excessive at all; you can start pulling the engine from ~1,200 rpm itself.
On the open road, you can really stretch the legs of the Harrier and make fast progress. The mid-range is simply fantastic and gets very addictive. The engine comes into its stride once the needle crosses 2,000 rpm, with a nice spike of torque. You'll enjoy the punch & it pulls very nicely till ~4,000 rpm. The torque on tap means you don't have to shift down much to overtake. On the expressway, light overtaking is taken care of in the 6th gear itself. Push the engine and it will rev to ~5,000 rpm, but honestly, there is no point doing this. Not only does it get noisy beyond 3,500 rpm, but it also runs out of muscle past ~4,000 rpm or so. When you want to cruise, the diesel can be an able & relaxed mile muncher, thanks to that 6th gear.
The 6-speed gearbox is a likeable unit with its medium throws. The shifts are sure-slotting and don’t feel too notchy. The clutch of our test car was on a slightly heavier side, and the travel range wasn’t too long. The bite point is a bit lower than you would expect so you might end up stalling the car in 2nd gear at times. It also has a springy action which means that you have to make conscious efforts to drive the car smoothly. Driving in the city for long periods will get cumbersome. If your commute involves a lot of bumper-to-bumper crawling, definitely go for the automatic.

Drive Modes
You get two selectable driving modes (apart from the default City mode) that alter the engine map and the steering weight.
Eco Mode –  Switching to 'Eco' mode makes the throttle response a lot duller. This mode limits the power output and the engine uses less fuel as compared to the other modes. Even so, the low-end torque makes Eco mode useable in the city. On the highway, this mode can be used for cruising. And especially for driving smoothly, the Eco mode is very useful. Steering is light in Eco mode and makes the car easy to drive in the city.
Sport Mode - As expected, switching to Sport mode makes the car more responsive to throttle inputs (both, in terms of pedal and engine mapping). A slight dab on the accelerator and the difference is immediately felt. That said, this mode is not very nice to use in urban conditions, particularly if the driver has a slightly heavy foot. We felt the car gets just a little too jerky for regular city commuting. Where the Sport mode is at home is on the highway. The improved throttle response is always welcome when you want to cruise fast or overtake.
The steering gets noticeably heavy in the Sport mode and grants a lot of confidence to the driver when on the highways. The heft makes the steering more predictable on twisty roads as well.

Noise, Vibration & Harshness (NVH)
Tata has made efforts to reduce the NVH levels, but compared to the pre-facelift version, you won’t notice a huge difference. At idle, the car is relatively silent and at city speeds, while you can hear the engine, it’s not very intrusive. Floor the accelerator and you hear the diesel engine grunt which sounds nice in the mid-range, not so much on the top-end where it gets too loud. Road noise and tyre noise on the highway are well controlled.

Mileage & Fuel Economy
The Tata Harrier facelift has a claimed fuel efficiency of 16.80 km/l for the manual and 14.60 km/l for the automatic version.

Suspension & Ride Comfort
The Harrier is equipped with an independent McPherson strut front suspension with coil springs and an anti-roll bar, while the rear is a semi-independent twist blade design with a Panhard rod. The Harrier's ride quality is mature but has a firm edge to it. At city speeds, it is compliant enough and the Harrier's occupants will be kept comfortable. No owner will complain. Still, it's not what we would call "plush" as the sharpness of potholes is obvious inside & you'll feel a hint of firmness on bad roads (with some side-to-side movement of the cabin too). What’s good is that the suspension is absorbent and you can carry some good speed over bad roads. Our test car was shod with 235/60/R18 and the overall ride comfort with these tyres is good. The #DARK edition cars get 19-inch alloy wheels with 245/55 section tyres and you can expect a stiffer ride with those tyres.
On the highway too, the Harrier's ride quality is compliant & adequate. Vertical movement is well-controlled, and the car doesn’t feel floaty at high speeds. Munching miles on the Harrier should be a comfortable affair. What's nice is that the suspension goes about its job silently - it's not clunky or loud.

Steering
Since this is one of the biggest talking points of the Harrier facelift, we thought we’d get right into it. Tata has switched from a hydraulic steering unit to an electric power steering (EPS) unit. We talked about the poor calibration of the hydraulic unit in detail in our official review. The switch to EPS has been a welcome addition and there are many reasons why this was done. Primarily to be able to include ADAS features like lane keep assist and also to improve the fuel economy slightly.
The EPS is a nice unit to operate in the city and is very convenient for urban commuting. It’s light at city speeds and weighs up nicely as you build up speed. Especially driving in Sport mode, the heft in the steering wheel feels very good and very confidence-inspiring. While the earlier hydraulic unit was very sensitive at high speeds, this electric power steering is predictable and owners will appreciate this steering. As an enthusiast, while it may feel a bit artificial, the predictable behaviour allows you to carry more speed into corners. While you would still be left wanting some more feedback from the steering, it is direct enough for you to appreciate the steering calibration.

Handling & Dynamics
Straight-line stability is good, even at high speeds. Grip levels are satisfactory from the chassis & 235 mm tyres, but this isn’t an SUV that we’d call a corner carver. You can turn into a corner and the Harrier holds its line well. Body roll is present and you feel the Harrier’s height + weight. Still, all of this is fine and the behaviour is acceptable.
In addition to the switchable engine remaps mentioned in the engine post, the Harrier gets a Land Rover-esque terrain response system with two selectable modes (apart from the normal driving mode). Wet Mode is designed for driving in the rain by providing better traction and handling. If you should hit a rough patch on your holiday outings, Tata has you covered there too, with the Rough Road Mode which optimizes the vehicle's behaviour on broken roads. Braking performance is also tuned to support rough road surfaces.

Braking
Lower variants (Smart(O), Pure (O), and Adventure) get disc brakes at the front and drum brakes at the rear. Adventure+ variant onwards you get all-wheel disc brakes. ABS, EBD, brake disc wiping, after-impact braking, ESP, hill hold control, traction control and corner stability control are standard on all variants of the Harrier.
The all-wheel disc brake setup works really well and the car sheds speed effectively. The pedal feel is progressive and the car stops in a straight line without any drama. The bite point is high, so that takes some time to get used to.

Niggles & Problems
With the Harrier facelift, Tata has made a lot of changes and added a fair bit of electronics too. And while Tata has been developing these systems for some time now, chances of them going wrong are also high. On our test drive, we didn’t have any electronic issues with our test car, but some fellow journalists faced issues with the infotainment screen. Also, worth mentioning that this was the first car that we noticed in which the indicator ticks were out of rhythm! For someone with OCD, this will get extremely annoying very soon.
As mentioned above as well, some plastic bits weren’t finished well, and we would recommend that you do a thorough PDI before taking the delivery to ensure that your car is free of any niggles or issues. Also as always, we recommend that you get the 2-year extended warranty over the standard warranty of 3 years or 1,00,000 km.