2024 Toyota Camry Hybrid Review

Toyota Camry Hybrid Pros
An extremely well-rounded luxury sedan. Lots of road presence due to its sheer size too
We find the Camry well-priced for what it offers
Spacious, comfortable & well-equipped cabin
Powerful and environment-friendly hybrid powertrain mated to a butter-smooth CVT automatic
Excellent fuel efficiency. ARAI FE rating = 25.49 km/l. 15 km/l in the city is easy
Compliant ride quality with sorted road manners
Loaded with kit (9-speaker JBL sound system, ventilated front seats, reclinable rear seats, head-up display, drive modes, telematics, etc.)
Top-notch safety ratings. Equipment includes 9 airbags, ESP, Toyota Safety Sense (ADAS) & more
Toyota’s excellent reliability and superb after-sales service

Toyota Camry Hybrid Cons
Styling isn't to everyone's taste. You'll either love it or hate it
Not as solidly built as German competitors
Handful of cabin plastics don't feel premium
Owners will miss a panoramic sunroof, folding rear seat, glovebox cooling & illumination etc.
Back seat is better suited to 2 adults, rather than 3
Turning radius of 5.7 m and large size will make it difficult to manouver in congested cities
Road noise is higher than expected

Introduction
In India, sedans have seen their market share slip over the years. More and more have been leaning towards SUVs and crossovers. Due to this trend, most manufacturers have product portfolios filled with SUVs with just one or two sedans. Toyota discontinued its smaller sedans (Corolla and Yaris), but retained just one - the Camry. This car has been the default choice for customers who want a spacious, reliable & tech-laden luxury barge. While there is competition from European and Chinese car makers, they cannot match Toyota's long-term reliability, fuss-free ownership & excellent after-sales service. As a result, the Camry dominates the D2 sedan segment.
Now, Toyota has launched the 9th generation Camry in India. Like the 8th generation car, the new one is available only in petrol hybrid version with an e-CVT transmission and front-wheel drive. The car will come in 6 single-tone colours - Cement Gray, Attitude Black, Dark Blue, Emotional Red, Platinum White Pearl and Precious Metal.
Toyota is assembling the Camry from imported SKD kits at its Bidadi plant in Karnataka. The car carries over the TNGA-K platform that underpinned the previous-gen model. This platform is used in many other Toyota / Lexus cars which are sold in India.
2024 Toyota Camry Hybrid Price & Brochure
Toyota has priced the Camry at Rs. 48 lakh (ex-showroom), which we feel is competitive. The Skoda Superb - its nearest rival, is priced at Rs. 54 lakh (ex-showroom). While the prices do not appear too far apart, we must remember that the Superb only comes with a petrol engine and the Camry gets a hybrid powerplant. On the other hand, the BYD Seal, which is an EV, costs between Rs. 41 - 53 lakh. Other sedans that are priced close to the Camry are the entry-level offerings from the German trio. However, they are nowhere as big or spacious and comfortable.
Toyota has loaded the car with features including telematics, 12.3-inch digital instrument cluster, 12.3-inch touchscreen head-unit, JBL sound system, wireless Android Auto & Apple CarPlay, wireless charging pad, head-up display, UV-cut glass, sunroof, sunshades for the rear windows & windshield, electrically adjustable & ventilated front seats, reclining rear seats and more. Safety features include Toyota Safety Sense 3.0 (ADAS), 9 airbags, SOS call, electronic aids, TPMS, 360-degree camera and 3-point seatbelts for all occupants. The car has received a
5-star safety rating from ANCAP.
The Camry comes with a standard warranty of 3 years / 1,00,000 km. Owners have the option of purchasing an extended warranty of up to 5 years / 220,000 km. The car also comes with 3 years of free roadside assistance. Its hybrid battery comes with a warranty of 8 years / 1,60,000 km.
The Toyota Camry Hybrid official brochure can be downloaded here.
Toyota Camry Brochure.pdf

Toyota  Camry Exterior Review
While the Camry is available in just a single "Elegant Edition" variant at the moment, we got to drive this sporty "Sprint Edition" which comes in a dual-tone paint job. It is likely to be introduced at a later date.
Front end looks sportier than the outgoing model. The bonnet, headlights, bumper and radiator grille have been redesigned giving the car a more aerodynamic look than its predecessor.
At the rear there are redesigned tail-lamps, boot lid and bumper.
Viewed from the side, the similarities with the 8th-gen car are evident. However, the design of the alloy wheels and the glass area has been changed.
The new car looks much better in person than in pictures. While the bonnet, doors and boot lid have a good deal of heft, there is some flex in the doors when pressed with a thumb. Also, the doors do not close with the "thud" that we experience in European cars. Still, the car feels sturdy.
The 9th-gen Camry measures 4,920 mm in length, which makes it 35 mm longer than the outgoing car. The width at 1,840 mm, height at 1,455 mm and wheelbase at 2,825 mm remain the same.
LED headlamps get automatic high beam which adjusts them according to the road conditions. LED DRLs are integrated into the headlamps.
Nose is low and upper radiator grille is slim. Notice the off-centre front camera. Air dam is huge and houses tiny LED fog lamps. Bumper sports thin air curtains at the ends.
The Camry is equipped with Toyota Safety Sense 3.0 (ADAS) which includes features such as Pre-Collision System, Dynamic Radar Cruise Control, Lane Departure Alert, Lane Tracing Assist, Automatic High Beam and more. ADAS camera is located behind the IRVM.
HEV" badges are pasted on both sides.
ORVMs get integrated turn indicators and chrome inserts. Side cameras (for the 360-degree display) are placed underneath. ORVM gets auto-reverse tilt function.
Door handles are carried over from the outgoing car. In this Sprint Edition, they are body coloured.
At 18 inches and 235/45, the wheel and tyre sizes are unchanged. The alloy wheels, however, have been redesigned and look very sporty. In the Sprint Edition they are finished in black.
Glass area gets a chrome border and tapers towards the rear. The Camry is fitted with High Solar Energy Absorbing UV-Cut glass.
Sticker on the inside of the fuel flap to indicate its dietary preferences. There's a small "P" on the fuel cap as well. Yes, the Camry is E20 compliant. Fuel tank capacity = 50 litres.
A simple electric sunroof. At this price point, the Camry should have had a panoramic sunroof IMHO. The black roof is a wrap and not paint.
Tail-lamps stick out on the sides. Boot lid features "CAMRY" lettering and an HEV badge. Rear camera is placed in the middle just above the number plate. Black spoiler is only on the Sprint Edition.
LED tail-lamps are shaped in sync with the headlamps.
Dual-tone rear bumper gets a silver insert and slim reflectors. Lower portion has diffuser like detailing. Simple exhaust pipe is bent downwards and doesn't get a chrome tip like the outgoing car.

Toyota Camry Interior Review
Guitar-shaped dashboard design is striking. The interior is finished in good yellow-brown leather and gets silver and piano black accents. Lower part of the cabin and most areas which will be touched are black, which means it won't get soiled easily. Many parts are carried over from the outgoing car. There is lots of space inside and the overall quality & ambience are good. All controls are within easy reach.
Leather-wrapped steering wheel is chunky and great to hold. It gets silver and piano black inserts and houses buttons for controlling the infotainment, telephone, voice commands, MID and Toyota Safety Sense features. The buttons are well-sized (including the fonts). Lower buttons are finished in piano black.
Engine start button is lifted from the Innova Hycross. It gets a silver ring.
Head-up display shows speed, gear selected and navigation among other functions.
12.3-inch digital instrument cluster is clear and easy to read. This time, a rev-counter has been provided.
One can choose from two other themes for the instrument cluster. Our test car had a TPMS malfunction - something rare in a Toyota!
Instrument cluster changes its colour based on the drive mode selected. Indicator for the EV mode comes up on the left.
Well-built stalks have a lovely soft action. As expected of a car in this price bracket, the Camry gets auto headlamps and rain-sensing wipers.
Headlight leveller and switches for the auto high beam, rear sunshade, 360-degree camera system, traction control and brightness of the instrument cluster are located to the right of the steering wheel.
Fuel flap and boot lid release buttons are placed here as well. Bonnet release feels budget grade and out of place on a car from this segment.
Doorpads get silver inserts. Leather has been applied on the armrest and area above it. Door pockets can hold a 1-litre bottle and other small items.
Buttons for seat memory, ORVM adjustment, central locking and power windows have been carried over from the outgoing Camry. ORVM adjustment knob gets a nice knurled finish. Unlike the old car, the panel is not finished in piano black.
Seats are upholstered in leather. They are 10-way adjustable and ventilated. Headrests have 2-way adjustability. Centre armrest is wide and leather-wrapped. Overall, we found the front seats to be very supportive and comfortable.
ORVMs offer good visibility.
Auto-dimming IRVM is wide enough to cover the entire rear windshield, but the thick C-pillars, headrests and small rear windshield restrict visibility.
Centre fascia is dominated by a 12.3-inch touchscreen head-unit. The design hampers the passenger from accessing the wireless charger, the storage area as well as the USB.
12.3-inch touchscreen head-unit comes with onboard navigation, Wireless Apple Car Play & Android Auto, apps and  Toyota’s T-Connect telematics. It is paired to a 9-Speaker premium JBL Audio System. Sound quality is pretty good for a stock system. We found it a little bass-heavy though.
Flow of energy is displayed on the touchscreen when the car running.
Touchscreen doubles up as a display for the reversing and 360-degree cameras. Display quality is not great for a car of this class though.
The Camry gets a multi-zone climate control system with a NanoeX ion generator. Good to see physical button here instead of a touch panel. Buttons for the ventilated seats are here as well. Air-con vents have silver inserts.
2 Type-C charging ports and 1 USB port to connect your smartphone to the infotainment head-unit along with a wireless charging pad are located at the base of the centre fascia.
Center console has a piano black finish. Classy gear knob gets a leather boot and silver trim/ Move the knob to the right to engage the sequential shift mode.
Buttons for the different driving modes, along with those for EV mode, auto-hold and the electronic parking brake are located just behind the gear shifter.
Two cupholders are located next to the gear selector with a long storage area ahead of it.
Under the driver's armrest is a deep storage box with a carpeted base. 12V power outlet is located here.
The glove box is medium-sized and opens with a damped action. It does not get compartments, illumination or cooling.
Roof bezel holds the controls for the sunroof and cabin lights as well as a button for the SOS e-call.
As mentioned earlier, a panoramic sunroof should have been provided. The sunroof has a manually operated blind. An electrically operated cover is expected at this price.
The doors open nice and wide and the roofline doesn't slope down sharply, hence allowing easier ingress & egress. Rear doorpads have the same theme as the front one. The door pockets are smaller and manual sunshades have been provided.
Very comfortable rear seat. Left and right backrests can be reclined. Do note that if you recline the seats, the middle passenger's backrest protrudes out (as shown here). That along with the prominent floor hump can make the middle passenger uncomfortable. Overall, the back seat is more suitable for 2 adults, not 3.
All three occupants get 3-point seatbelts and adjustable headrests with bolsters for additional support. ISOFIX child seat anchors have been provided on both sides.
An ideal car for the chauffeur-driven. Legroom & headroom are both satisfactory. The seats are nice and supportive. Because it's placed on the lower side though, tall passengers might be left wanting for more under-thigh support.
One can move the front passenger's seat forward if he wants more space. He can even adjust the seatback recline angle.
A huge amount of legroom is available with the front passenger seat moved forward.
Big leather-clad armrest gets classy piano-black finishing and a metal trim. Comes with rear seat controls and two flip-out cupholders. The seat reclining, rear climate control, audio and rear windscreen sunshade can be controlled from here. You can switch on / off this console via the round power button on top.
The boot can be accessed from the rear seat. You can open this partition to carry long items (golf clubs etc.).
Rear A/C vents and 2 USB charging points have been carried over from the outgoing car. All-black unit looks rather bland.
Vents below the rear seat to cool the hybrid system's batteries.
Rear windshield gets an electrically operated sunshade.
Big boot can accommodate a family's vacation luggage with ease.
Tools are housed in a Styrofoam casing, which sits in the spare wheel. Spare is a full-size alloy wheel. 12V battery is located in the boot. This is the main car battery (no battery under the bonnet). Multiple hooks and tie-down points have been provided.
Boot lid gets full cladding on the inside.

Driving the Toyota Camry Hybrid
The Toyota Camry Hybrid is powered by a 5th Generation Hybrid System. It uses a 2.5-litre, 4-cylinder Dynamic Force petrol engine that puts out 184 BHP @ 6,000 rpm and 221 Nm @ 3,600 – 5,200 rpm paired to an Electric Permanent Magnet Synchronous Motor that develops 134 BHP and 208 Nm. Toyota has used a lighter Li-Ion battery instead of a Ni-MH one for powering the electric motor. The combined power is 227 BHP. The 9th-gen Camry weighs 1,645 kg (20 kg lesser than the outgoing car). This gives it a power-to-weight ratio of 138 BHP / ton (9 BHP / ton more than the 8th-gen). The engine is paired to an e-CVT with a 10-speed sequential shift.
With your foot on the brake, press the engine start button. It doesn't result in the usual sound of a starter cranking the engine to life. It's eerily silent and for those who haven't experienced electric or hybrid cars before, this does take a little getting used to.  The car starts in electric mode, with the dials and “READY” indicator lighting up. Slot the gear lever into D and you're all set to roll.
Lift off the B pedal and the car moves forward instantly without any throttle input. Step in the accelerator and the instant torque from the electric motor ensures that the Camry immediately darts forward. Low-end torque is very good. In heavy traffic, you can drive the car without any throttle input. The petrol engine turns on only when extra shove is required, or if the batteries are below a certain charge level. While the insulation is superb & regular folk won't know, enthusiasts will notice when the petrol engine suddenly kicks in. Whether it is driving in bumper-to-bumper traffic or closing gaps, the Camry does it effortlessly. The e-CVT provides a seamless experience in the city. As there aren't any actual gear shifts taking place, the drive feels amazingly smooth. Throttle response is good and the rubber-band effect is well-controlled with a light foot on the accelerator. These traits make the Camry very easy to drive in the city.
On the open road too, the Camry is a strong performer. There is more than enough power and torque on offer to keep up with the traffic with ease. The powertrain responds well to throttle inputs and power is always available. Outright performance is very strong. It can hit silly speeds in a very short time. Slow-moving vehicles are overtaken without any drama. In terms of cruisability, the Camry proves to be a good mile muncher. It can maintain triple-digit speeds effortlessly. 100 km/h was seen at ~1,750 rpm.
The Camry gets drive modes that basically alter the throttle response as well as the behaviour of the internal combustion engine. There is a dedicated EV mode button that will let you drive the car as an EV for the maximum distance possible. However, if you are heavy on the throttle or the speed crosses ~60 km/h or the battery's state of charge is too low, the system will go back from EV mode to hybrid mode.
Apart from the EV mode, there are 3 drive modes: Normal, Eco and Sport. These 3 modes alter the throttle response.
The Normal mode is the default mode which is in between the middle of Eco and Sport modes. It works well in town and on the highway and offers a good balance between efficiency and performance. In fact, you really don't need to change it unless you're driving uphill or want to overtake a vehicle quickly on an undivided highway.
In Eco mode, the internal combustion engine doesn't come on as easily unless you press the throttle a lot more. The throttle response is dull and it tries to keep it in hybrid mode with the internal combustion engine only charging the battery and not sending power to the wheels unless the accelerator is pressed very firmly. This is a nice mode to use in the city, where speeds are on the lower side. However, because of the power available, it can be used on the open road as well.
In Sport mode, it's the opposite. In this mode, the Camry feel like a proper 200+ BHP car Even with a light dab of the throttle, the internal combustion motor comes alive and assists the power delivery. On undivided highways, this is the mode to use to pull off safe overtakes. Throttle response is much sharper and you rarely see the internal combustion engine turning off. The CVT is nice in Sport mode, and its rubberband effect is mostly evident under hard acceleration (where the engine stays stuck at max revs) or hard driving. Even then, it's nowhere as bad as CVT from the past. Of course, using Sport mode impacts fuel efficiency the most and it is also not advisable to use this mode in the city as power delivery can get a spiky.
The gearbox also has a manual mode. You can use the gear shifter or the paddles behind the steering wheel to change gears. You'll like the engine braking on offer. The gearbox has an "S" mode too in which the transmission holds the gears for a little longer than in the regular D mode.

Noise, Vibration & Harshness (NVH)
The Camry's NVH levels are good. The car does a good job of keeping most noises out of the cabin most of the time. It's only when you press the accelerator harder that you can hear the 2.5L petrol engine. However, it is never too loud and the occupants of the car do not have to raise their voices while talking to each other. We did not feel any vibrations even when the petrol motor came on.
While wind and suspension noise are well-contained, road noise is quite prominent.

Mileage & Fuel economy
The Camry's ARAI fuel-efficiency rating is 25.49 km/l, which is an improvement over the outgoing car's 23.27 km/l. In our short drive, which included some fast driving and lots of idling, we couldn't really test the fuel economy. Even so, with better aerodynamics and a lesser kerb weight than its predecessor, we expect the 9th-gen Camry to easily deliver 15 - 20 km/l in real-world conditions.

Suspension & Ride Comfort
The Toyota Camry gets a MacPherson strut suspension at the front and a double wishbone setup at the rear. The suspension feels mature. It works silently and is compliant. Most bumps, besides the larger ones, are absorbed well without transmitting any thuds to the cabin, and it doesn't feel as though you are hurting the Camry when driving on bad city roads. There is some firmness felt over sharp potholes / bumps, and we think the large 18-inch wheels and 235/45 low profile tyres are a contributor there. Still, whether in the front seat or back, ride quality is compliant and no owner will ever complain.

Handling & Dynamics
High-speed stability is very good. Even at 120 km/h, the Camry is very well-planted and displays no floatiness or nervousness. On undulations, the vertical movement is well controlled.
On a winding road, the car changes direction without any fuss. It's only when you drive aggressively and attempt quick lane changes that you will notice some body roll. On the other hand, the Bridgestone Turanza tyres provide excellent grip and the car sticks to its line through curves.
Overall, we would term the handling and dynamics of the Camry as safe and predictable.

Steering
The Camry comes with an electric steering that is well-calibrated. It is light at slow speeds and gets heavier as the speed goes up. It also weighs up in "Sport" mode if you desire more weight at highway speeds. While the steering feels direct, it could do with more feedback. The turning radius of the Camry is rated at 5.7 m. This is a big car and you will be making more 3-point turns than you'd expect, which can get annoying in congested cities.

Braking
Being a hybrid, braking is different compared to conventional cars. With disc brakes all around, the stopping power is good. But the braking needs time to get used to. It's not easy to get a linear braking response. This needs getting used to. It will catch you off guard initially, but after a while, you get accustomed to it and change your braking style accordingly.