2022 Audi Q3 Review

Audi Q3 Pros
Evolved sporty styling, matched with solid build quality
Increased cabin space, practicality and boot capacity (530 litres)
Incredibly fun-to-drive 2.0L turbo-petrol with a quick 7-speed dual-clutch automatic
Quattro all-wheel drive provides loads of grip & will help you get out of tricky situations (sand, mud etc.)
Good road manners with sorted ride quality
Well-equipped (panoramic sunroof, powered front seats, dual-zone climate control, virtual cockpit & more)
5-star Euro NCAP safety rating and equipment

Audi Q3 Cons
Efficient & punchy 2.0 turbo-diesel is no longer available. Heavy users will miss its low running costs
Same 187 horses as the Kodiaq & Tiguan. We would've preferred a higher state of tune on a more expensive Audi
Pricey! The Skoda Kodiaq and VW Tiguan are ~10-15 lakhs cheaper on-road
Just two variants. No cheaper FWD entry-level variant available. Period
Should’ve gotten adaptive dampers, at least on the top-end 'Technology' variant
Cabin is best suited for 4 adults, not 5
Missing features like a 360-degree camera, ventilated seats, driving assist tech, auto-hold, connected car gizmos etc.

Introduction
Audi first launched the Q3 in the Indian market almost a decade ago. It did quite well for itself and when the BS6 regulations came in, the company pulled the plug on it in 2020. Note that the second generation Q3 had already been internationally unveiled in 2018. So after a long wait, Audi has finally launched the latest generation car in India and there's no shying away from the fact that the 'Baby Q' is a little late to the party. Moreover, it faces tough competition in the segment from the Mercedes Benz GLA, BMW X1 and the Volvo XC40.
Powering the 2022 Audi Q3 is a 2.0-litre turbo-petrol engine that makes 187 BHP and 320 Nm. It's mated to a 7-speed dual-clutch S tronic gearbox that sends power to all four wheels through Audi's Quattro all-wheel drive system. The Q3 is well equipped too with features like 6 airbags, drive modes, a panoramic sunroof, 8-way power adjustable front seats with 4-way adjustable lumbar support, dual-zone climate control, Audi virtual cockpit, in-built navigation, Android Auto and Apple CarPlay connectivity, wireless charging, ambient lighting, and an electronic tailgate. But as you may have realised by now, there are a few missing features. A 360-degree camera, ventilated seats, connected car tech, electric steering adjustment, and driver assist features are something you would expect in a car at this price. You also miss out on the adaptive suspension that you get on the Skoda Kodiaq (more on this later).
Moving on, there's the elephant in the room that needs to be addressed right away - the price. There are 2 variants on offer: Premium Plus and Technology, priced at Rs. 44.89 lakh and Rs. 50.39 lakh (ex-showroom), respectively. Approximately Rs. 60 lakh on-road in Delhi, is a lot of money for a hatchback-like crossover. Also, that's ~ Rs. 15-20 lakh more than the Tiguan with which the Q3 shares its powertrain. Even when compared to the competition, the top-end variant of the Q3 is the priciest in its class. But given the way our market has evolved over the years, the 50-60 lakh rupee price bracket is seeing a lot of buyers. Heck, even a Fortuner is ~ Rs. 60 lakh on-road now. So for anyone who wants a luxury car with a powerful petrol engine and good dynamics, the Q3 makes good sense. It has the quickest 0-100 km/h time (7.3 seconds) and is the only car in the segment to have an all-wheel drive system with a petrol engine. There’s also a 5-year extended warranty and a 3-year / 50,000 km comprehensive service package offered to the first 500 customers.

Exterior
The primary update in the second-gen Q3 is the MQB A2 platform that is shared with the Volkswagen Tiguan and Skoda Kodiaq. The Q3 has grown in all dimensions compared to the previous generation car with a longer wheelbase and a wider track. Even in terms of design, this second generation car feels like a design evolution rather than just a facelift update.
Following the design language of its big brothers, the Q3 gets a big octagonal grille at the front. There are 8 vertical slats in the grille and the four rings logo in the middle. There’s an air dam below and you also get a faux silver skid plate. The silver elements you see here aren’t shiny chrome but have a brushed aluminium-like finish which looks good. However, there’s just too much silver for my liking and I would’ve preferred these in black.
Design changes at the rear are subtle but differentiate the generations well. You have a split tail-lamp design now and there's a big diffuser-like silver skid plate at the bottom. With a lot of manufacturers debadging their cars, it’s good to see the traditional model name and the engine badge in their rightful places.
The new Q3 has a wheelbase of 2,680 mm, which is longer by 77 mm compared to the older car.
IMO, the overall design looks good. It’s conservative and edgy at the same time and somehow finds the right balance. It does look a little over the top in this exclusive 'Pulse Orange S' paint shade, but in terms of proportions and size, this is a nice-looking crossover-SUV. Plus, the build quality is excellent and the car feels solid.
The second generation Q3 measures 4,484 mm in length, 2,024 mm in width (including mirrors), and 1,616 mm in height.
The dual-barrel LED headlamps have a wedge-shaped design and come with integrated LED DRLs. No fog lamps here as we’ve seen with luxury cars in recent times (
related thread
Instead, you get this plastic insert that’s designed like a big air vent but isn’t functional. International variants get ultra-sonic sensors here for driver assist systems.
Check out the haunch above the rear wheel. There are plenty of body creases that give the car a muscular look.
18-inch alloy wheels have a simple 5-spoke design and are shod with 235/55 R18 tyres.
As is the norm in this segment, the rear wheels also get disc brakes. Check out how neatly the wheel and tyre combination fills the wheel well.
The panoramic sunroof isn’t really that big compared to the Mercedes GLA’s twin sunroof which lets in more light.
The split LED tail-lamp design looks sleek and clean.
Probably one of the ugliest bits of the car. The diffuser-like silver skid plate looks completely out of place. Also, the fake twin-exhaust black inserts aren't fooling anyone.

Interior
Step inside the cabin and you are greeted by this clean dashboard with a lot of straight lines and brushed silver touches. It has an understated look that we've come to expect in an Audi and the quality of materials used matches German standards. The top part of the dashboard has soft-touch plastics and feels premium.
The chunky steering wheel is a direct lift from the Q5. You need to stretch your thumbs to reach the horn pad which is a minor irritant. However, the steering feels very nice to hold and is comfortable to use. The Q3 also gets 'Progressive Steering' (details in the driving post) which is a very clever feature for city driving.
You will enjoy using the paddle shifters with this turbo-petrol engine.
Manual steering adjustment doesn't really shout premium, does it? You get tilt and telescopic adjustment here.
Audi's virtual cockpit 10.25-inch screen has a top-notch display. You can customize it in a couple of ways and even have a minimalist display. Also, it's nice to see important readouts like the engine temperature gauge and fuel gauge placed separately on the sides.
You can have navigation displayed on the MID, so you don't have to keep looking at the infotainment screen. Details like average fuel economy, instantaneous fuel consumption, air-conditioner fuel consumption, trip details, and more can also be seen on the MID. You also get a prompt when traction control is turned off.
Old rotary knob for light controls has been replaced by simple buttons.
Doors are heavy and the door pad design is pretty straightforward. Top part is soft to the touch and the area above the armrest is wrapped in leatherette-like material. The door pockets are big and can easily hold 1-1.5-litre bottles and still have some space left for other knick knacks.
Standard Audi console for power window and ORVM controls.
Seats get this tan-coloured upholstery (Audi calls it Okapi Brown) and it looks really good. You can also have them in 'Pearl Beige' which is like an off-white shade. In terms of comfort, the front seats are nice and accommodating. There's decent side bolstering to support you in corners. I'm 5'10" tall and I found the under-thigh support to be just about enough. Taller folk and people with a broader build will want more supportive seats.
There's a small storage underneath the front seat for some documents. Here's a 6.5-inch smartphone for size reference.
Both front seats get an 8-way power adjustment and a 4-way lumbar adjustment.
IRVM covers the rear windshield well. But if you have passengers in the rear seat, it will be difficult to get a decent view of the back. Yes, this is a frameless auto-dimming IRVM.
Centre console is visibly tilted towards the driver for an immersed cockpit-like feel. The placement of all the controls is very ergonomic and everything is in within easy.
Sleek central A/C vents are placed on top of the dashboard. Glad that they didn't add a silver border around these vents.
10.1-inch touchscreen head-unit is mated to a 180W, 10-speaker Audi sound system. The sound quality is just average and it won't blow you away. The display is crisp and the touch is very responsive. It is a fingerprint magnet though, and you'll need to keep that microfibre cloth handy.
There are quick-access buttons placed on the side of the screen for important menus. You get a split-screen display for the home screen and plenty of options in the menu. You can also access some settings related to the connectivity by sliding down the status bar (as you would on your phone).
Car-related functions like drive modes, lights, etc can be accessed through the touchscreen. The reversing camera display is good, but at this price point, a 360-degree camera is expected.
Old school climate control panel. Many will complain that it looks outdated, but in terms of functionality, it works well. This is a dual-zone climate control setup and there's no dedicated sync button. Long press the 'Auto' knob and the temperatures will sync with the driver-side temperature. Rotate the 'Auto' knob to disengage sync.
You even get a knob for controlling the music! This is primarily for the front passenger to quickly access music controls instead of using the touchscreen. The plastic panel with so much blank space just feels odd. Below, you have buttons to select the drive mode, switch off traction control, auto start/stop, and parking sensors.
The Q3 gets an 'Audi Phone box' which is not only a wireless charging pad but also connects your phone with the car antenna wirelessly for better connectivity in rural areas. There are only type-C USB charging ports in the car.
Very simple-looking gear lever.
Two cupholders with a slot to keep your smartphone vertically. Next to these, you have a small open cubbyhole and a 12V socket. You get an electronic parking brake and a dummy button behind it. Audi should've added the convenient auto-hold button here (available in other markets).
A very usable centre armrest that slides forward and has a storage bin underneath.
Very average-sized glovebox. Seems like the old CD player trim has been carried forward which takes up a lot of space. It's also the reason why the glovebox isn't cooled, only illuminated.
The dashboard gets this 'Quattro' badge which illuminates when it's dark. Looks very classy! It's a part of the ambient lighting package which has 30 colours.
Panoramic sunroof lets in enough light.
In comparison to the outgoing car, cabin space has gone up. But when you look at it as an overall package, it's still not super spacious in the rear. The width of the cabin makes it best for 2 people rather than 3. The big transmission tunnel, firm seat base & backrest will make the middle passenger quite uncomfortable. The window line is set at a nice height and there's a good amount of light coming in from the window as well as the quarter glass.
The seat cushioning is comfortable and on point. It's not too soft nor too firm. The backrest can be reclined and the seat can slide forward too. This is mainly for creating more space in the boot rather than increasing the legroom. I'm 5'10" tall and behind my driving position, I had a couple of inches of legroom. There's some space underneath the front seats to tuck your feet in as well. Headroom for tall passengers is good too as the sunroof doesn't stretch all the way back.
No lever to recline the backrest. You have to pull on the string to recline and the backrest angle is comfortable. There's a very useful cubbyhole next to the seat to keep your smartphone.
Centre armrest is wide enough for two people to use. There are two cupholders covered by a flap which prevents them from collecting dirt when you're not using them. There's a button below the flap which when pressed pops up the two cupholders.
Rear A/C vents are placed high and are easily reachable. Would've appreciated it if Audi had provided some regular USB ports below.
530-litre boot is very accommodating. The rear seats can be folded to increase the luggage capacity to ~1,500 litres. Loading lip is at a good height and the floor is flat which makes it easy to load and unload luggage. Also, note that the boot floor can be lowered by a couple of inches for more space.
This is a clever bit that a lot of owners will highly appreciate. When you want to access the spare wheel or the tools, you can lift the boot floor and it locks in place! Super neat. Here's another neat feature - you can store the parcel tray underneath the boot floor where it fits perfectly.
Tools are stored nicely in a Styrofoam casing around the spare wheel. Space-saver spare wheel houses the subwoofer.

Driving the Audi Q3 Turbo Petrol Automatic
Powering the Audi Q3 is a punchy 2.0-litre (40 TFSI) turbocharged petrol engine that puts out 187 BHP and 320 Nm of torque. It is mated to a 7-speed dual-clutch S tronic transmission with Audi’s Quattro AWD system.
This 2.0-litre turbo-petrol engine in the 187 BHP tune is shared with the Volkswagen Tiguan, Skoda Kodiaq, Skoda Octavia, Skoda Superb, Audi A4, etc. The same engine is available in a higher state of tune (241 BHP & 370 Nm) internationally, and a lot of owners would've appreciated the powerful tune in the Q3. But as of now, we have to make do with 187 BHP. The performance of this engine is strong and with the torque available from low revs, the 2.0 is quite tractable and enjoyable at all speeds. That said, it is disappointing that Audi hasn't made its durable, efficient & powerful 2.0 TDI engine BS6-compliant. That puts the Q3 at a disadvantage as there are many diesel lovers in the premium segment. Plus, that 2.0 diesel was a workhorse for high-mileage customers in a way that the 2.0 TFSI can never be. Important to note that the cars in direct competition (BMW X1 & Mercedes Benz GLA) have diesel engines in their line-up.
In the city, the 2.0 motor's healthy bottom end helps you get around effortlessly. The throttle response is good and the Q3 moves smoothly. Add to that, the direct injection and turbocharger ensure that the engine isn't lethargic at low RPMs. There's always more than enough power on tap to accelerate or overtake quickly. The minimal turbo lag just makes it that much more responsive. While the dual-clutch S tronic gearbox is super smooth 99% of the time, it can get jerky at crawling speeds in bumper-to-bumper traffic.
Drive with a light foot and the gearbox moves up the ratios quickly. It is eager to reach higher gears and you will see it upshift under 2,000 rpm. Impressively though, you won't feel these shifts as the transition is very smooth. The Q3’s steering is light at city speeds and the car shrinks further in size while driving. You will enjoy driving it in the city.
Out on the highway is when things go from
good to great
You'll find yourself addicted to flooring the throttle whenever there's an empty stretch of road. Outright performance is excellent and the strong mid-range takes care of all the overtaking you need to do. The downshifts are quick and the gearbox responds well to throttle inputs, especially in "Dynamic" mode. The engine revs beautifully to ~6,200 rpm and importantly, sounds lovely and sporty while doing so. While this is enjoyable, we would have liked to see 6,500 - 6,700 rpm to play with as this rpm level is way too low (even some diesels rev to 5,500 rpm!). In terms of cruisability, the Q3 can run at triple-digit speeds all day long without breaking into a sweat. The engine spins at a relaxed ~1,700 rpm at 100 km/h and ~2,000 rpm at 120 km/h. And touring you must do - this car is built for long-distance road trips. In summary, the 2.0 TFSI is a jewel of a motor that will keep you happy at low revs & high, and in the city as well as on the highway.
The Q3 uses a 7-speed dual-clutch gearbox and has a wet clutch setup. We have reservations regarding the long-term reliability of any VW / Skoda / Audi dual-clutch and strongly recommend getting that extended warranty. The first 500 customers of the Audi Q3 are being offered a 5-year extended warranty and a 3-year / 50,000 km comprehensive service package.
Cruising around in D mode, one won't even notice the gears shifting. The shifts are damn smooth. The kickdown response time is quick and you will never feel that the gearbox is hunting for gears either. It's in the right ratio almost all the time. When you are in the mood to drive the car aggressively - engage 'Dynamic' mode. This puts the car in 'high alert' mode and its senses are heightened. The dual-clutch transmission holds onto gears longer before upshifting and you'll also notice that the gearbox is eager to downshift at the slightest of throttle inputs. People with a heavy foot will love the S mode for sure. However, in the city where traffic is heavy, S mode can get jerky.
Paddle shifters have been provided and you will enjoy using them with this turbo-petrol. The response time is quick and they are fun to use on a twisty section of road. Tap the left paddle for a downshift and you'll notice the ECU blipping the throttle to match the revs, which is quite satisfying & addictive. There's a good amount of engine braking available too. But again, with such a combination, the paddle shifters would've been a lot more fun if the engine offered 500 - 1,000 more revs to play with.
The Q3’s dual-clutch S tronic features an "S" mode that changes the gearbox's shift points. The gearbox holds onto the gears longer too. One can engage the manual mode by moving the gear lever to the left into the Tiptronic gate, or by clicking on any of the plastic paddles. Tiptronic works in both "D" & "S" modes. The response time in Tiptronic is decent and the S tronic holds on to gears. One can use this mode to keep the engine in its powerband, which can be useful during overtaking manoeuvres.

Drive Modes
Apart from the gearbox's "S" mode, the Q3 has a host of driving modes, which change the parameters of the engine, gearbox, steering, ESP, and air-con. There are a total of five drive modes to choose from: Efficiency, Comfort, Auto, Dynamic and Offroad. The Q3 gets a dedicated ‘Drive Select’ button below the gear lever to select the drive mode.
Comfort mode: As the name suggests, everything is in the most comfortable setting in this mode - the engine map and steering. Use this for everyday driving in your city.
Dynamic mode: Engage Dynamic mode and the gearbox also shifts to ‘S’ mode. The downshifts are much quicker, and you'll feel the throttle to be sharper. The engine feels more responsive in Dynamic mode for sure. This is the mode for when you're in the 'mood' for fun. For regular city driving, this mode can feel peaky. The steering feels heavier than the other modes.
Efficiency mode: The climate control doesn't work as hard in efficiency mode - it still cools the cabin sufficiently though. Power delivery is lazier, with the throttle response dulled a bit. Overall, because the engine is reasonably powerful, the efficiency mode is still usable. It doesn't feel too sluggish and there is sufficient grunt on tap to keep you cruising at higher speeds. When it comes to quick overtaking, you will need Dynamic or Comfort modes.
Auto mode: This is the mode where you let the car decide what’s best for you. It’ll adjust characteristics based on your throttle inputs.
Offroad: As the name suggests, this should be engaged when you’re not on the road. It provides better accelerator sensitivity in these conditions. Also, the traction control is switched off when this mode is engaged.
Audi has equipped the Q3 with its well-known Quattro all-wheel drive system. As is usually the case with such crossovers, in normal conditions, the system sends power to the front wheels only. If road conditions require more traction, it will send the necessary amount of torque to the rear wheels. The system monitors which of the four wheels has the most traction and is able to send torque to those wheels. If slippery roads make a wheel lose traction, the system hits the brake on that wheel and transfers the remaining power to the other wheels. The AWD will help you when touring remote parts of the country and over the likes of slush, muck & sand. It's no hardcore offroader though.

Noise, Vibration & Harshness (NVH)
As you would expect in a premium SUV like this, refinement levels are satisfactory. The engine idles softly and you'll barely notice it while driving around sedately. Rev the 2.0 TFSI and a nice, sporty note is audible inside the cabin. Wind noise is well controlled even when driving at 120 km/h.
Mileage & Fuel Economy
We would expect 7 - 9 km/l in the city, depending on traffic density. You do get an idling stop/start system which should help save some fuel at traffic signals. Do note that turbo-petrol cars are very sensitive to throttle input and if you drive it hard (which you will), the fuel gauge will drop much faster and you'll see 5 - 6 km/l. The Q3’s fuel tank capacity is 62.4 litres.

Ride Comfort
The Q3 uses a MacPherson strut suspension at the front and a multi-link setup at the rear. The suspension feels firm for Indian conditions; as you would expect in a luxury car. But unlike the Tiguan, this suspension tune isn’t very uncomfortable and is quite livable. At low speeds, the Q3 absorbs small bumps nicely and not much is felt in the cabin. You do have to be careful with large potholes as you will hear a noticeable 'thud'. Over a rough patch of road, there is a lot of side-to-side movement in the cabin.
Out on the highway, the ride quality is good too. On a smooth expressway, you and your passengers will be munching miles quite comfortably. Vertical movement is well controlled i.e. the suspension is firm enough to prevent the body from bouncing too much on undulations. However, road imperfections and even rumble strips are felt sharply in the cabin.
Note that the Q3 doesn’t get the adaptive dampers like the Skoda Kodiaq. What you get is Audi’s 'Comfort Suspension'. And while this does a good job, having the 'Dynamic' dampers (adjustable firmness according to drive modes) would’ve given that added flexibility to the Q3’s ride comfort.
The recommended tyre pressure is 33 PSI and that’s perfect for day-to-day driving, not to forget that this is a luxury car and you cannot take on rough roads as you would, say, a Duster. It has the typical German car characteristics and the suspension tune has an underlying layer of firmness to it. But first-time luxury car buyers will appreciate the ride comfort of the Q3.

Handling & Dynamics
The good thing about this suspension tune is its high-speed behaviour. The car feels very solid and very planted. The car's high-speed stability is excellent, and it feels very composed at triple-digit speeds. The Q3 masks silly speeds with ease.
When on some twisty roads, you will appreciate the kind of grip you get from the Quattro all-wheel drive system. The car can hold its line quite easily and carry more speed into a corner. The Michelin Primacy 4 tyres on our test car did well when cornering hard. You can change directions without much drama and the car feels composed throughout. There’s some body roll felt under hard cornering, but it’s never excessive. Having adaptive dampers would’ve made some difference here in 'Dynamic' mode. All in all, the car's dynamics are typically German and complement the 2.0 TFSI engine very well.

Steering
While the electric power steering is accurate and weighs up at highway speeds (although not as much as enthusiasts would like), it offers very little feel and feedback. On the positive side, it's light at city & parking speeds. It also comes with something called
progressive steering
which will be immensely appreciated at parking speeds. What happens is that the steering ratio becomes increasingly direct with increasing steering angle. In simple words, the car understands that you are going lock-to-lock in a parking lot and reduces the number of turns. You can go from full left lock to full right lock in just 2 turns of the steering wheel! Super clever and efficient too. This, along with the delightful smooth gearshifts, smaller turning radius, and relatively urban-friendly dimensions, makes the Q3 easier to drive in the city.

Braking
Disc brakes all-round are pretty much a standard in this segment. The Q3's brakes are top-class. The car had no problems stopping in a straight line, even when we slammed on the brake pedal at speed. However, I did get the feeling that the brakes are too sensitive to pedal pressure and this can take some getting used to.