BMW 3-Series Gran Limousine Long Wheelbase Review

BMW 3-Series LWB Pros.
Very welcome increase in rear legroom & a comfy rear seat
Doesn't look stretched or weird at all. Proportions are good & the car looks handsome
Maintains fun-to-drive nature, despite the comfort-oriented changes
Both engines are simply fantastic! Practical, fun, rev-happy
The ZF 8-speed AT is the best gearbox in the segment
Comfortable ride quality. Suspension has been retuned for this LWB version
We love what BMW has done with the G20’s steering. It’s enjoyable to use
Lovely cabin, premium build, very supportive seats & a fab driving position
Enhanced kit includes a 16-speaker sound system, 360-degree cam, panoramic sunroof…
BMW’s strong track record for reliability (among the luxury marques)
5-star NCAP rating & a laundry list of safety equipment
Worth the extra money over the regular wheelbase car, in my opinion

BMW 3-Series LWB Cons.
Price is cutting it too close to 5-Series territory (especially after discounts on the 5)
Sad boot space with the spare wheel underneath
Surround view, HUD & keyless entry are only in the M-Sport variant
320Ld is offered just in the Luxury Line trim (not M-Sport)
Getting too big & heavy (320d = 1700 kilos) for a model that’s known as a “sports sedan”
At the limit, the regular wheelbase 3-Series is more fun to drive
Rear floor hump is enormous! Car is better as a 4-seater than 5
Low stance means ingress / egress aren’t senior-citizen friendly
Runflat tyres come with many compromises, wear out soon & are expensive to replace
We hate the all-digital instrument console. Also, the rev counter is weirdly inverted
The 3-Series LWB has a w-i-d-e 5.9 meter turning radius!
At this price, we expect goodies like Adaptive LEDs, ventilated seats…

Exterior
Quite a master-class move by BMW in bringing the LWB car here, inspired no doubt by the E-Class LWB. Indians love rear legroom, even if they aren't chauffeur-driven. Head-on, the long-wheelbase looks exactly the same, with no changes. The luxury line bumper looks quite different from the M Sport we had tested earlier.
Certainly one of the best things is that from the side, in spite of the 110mm increase in wheelbase, the 3 still looks proportionate, and doesn't look stretched. Not awkward at all! The rear doors are supposedly 110mm longer, but they too don't look too large.
The rear three-quarter view, again, doesn't really show the stretch in the wheelbase unless one really looks hard. BMW has done a fantastic job with camouflaging the stretched bits, even die-hard enthusiasts will consider it for the practicality as there is minimal compromise on the looks.
The 17" wheels thankfully don't look super basic. They are shod with 225/50 R17 tyres.
A second cap for adding the Adblue, common on all vehicles now, but I am seeing it for the first time on the B47.
A bit strange seeing the LD badge on a 320. This is actually the second generation 3 Series to have an LWB version. The previous generation was only produced for the Chinese market.

Interior
View of the cockpit is exactly the same as the regular 3.
A look at the front seats, which again BMW claims to have done small changes to. To me, they felt exactly like the regular 3, apart from the headrest which is 'softer'.
What we've been waiting to see. The rear throne! The seats have been slightly redesigned with a longer base, a better backrest angle, and more padding + suppleness in general. Not to forget, the softer headrests. And man, just look at that legroom compared to a regular 3. I could easily sit behind the driver's seat adjusted to my position, with room to spare between my knees and the front seat. Not just the chauffeur-driven, even self-driven enthusiasts will appreciate this enhanced legroom for their family members.
A closer look at the better bolstered and stuffed seats. Inspite of me being on the taller side, I felt the thigh support was sufficient and possibly better than in the 5 Series. While the 3 Series GT before had more legroom than the 5, the rear seat itself of the 5 was more comfortable. I think the 3 LWB cuts it very close.
The silver strip on the back of the seat houses an ambient light bar, which is a small but sweet addition. It looks awesome at night, and this was only seen on more expensive cars before.
The armrest is apparently redesigned. The length may be a bit more. Also, the cupholders feel sturdier than before.
The third zone climate control for rear passengers, with some USB C ports below.

Driving the 2.0L Diesel AT
Will be a tough choice for enthusiasts between the
terrific 330i petrol (Review: BMW 330i (G20))
and this diesel which is equally a jewel of an engine!
The 320LD continues with the B47 diesel engine which was launched a couple of years ago. Power and torque remain the same at 188 BHP and 400 Nm. 0-100 is claimed at 7.6 seconds, which is 0.8 seconds slower than the regular sedan. The difference is only 0.4 seconds for the petrol variant.
After plonking myself into the driver's seat and pressing the start button, one immediately notices how much more refined it seems as compared to the older F30. The engine is a distant hum rather than the semi rattle of the older gen, and the vibration is greatly reduced too. The refinement feels a level up.
The 8-speed gearbox in this seems even better calibrated (one would doubt its possible) than in the older F30 gen, and the shifts are a tad bit smoother and less jerky under part throttle. Driving inside the city at low to moderate speeds is perfectly comfortable with the gearbox keeping the engine relaxed, and it will definitely be a good experience for the rear passengers. Driving enthusiastically, the gearbox is even more responsive, downshifting even quicker, and with faster feeling upshifts which give a small jerk in Sport mode. All in all, it does the job perfectly.
When it comes to the powertrain, not much is needed to be said. Its tried and tested, and been available for over 5 years, with a good reliability record in my opinion. Its got the same power figures as before, but it feels a tad bit more peppy in the newer chassis. More than enough torque is available to push you back into your seat, and it revvs freely to the red zone, which is now more pleasing with the better refinement. Like all German 2.0 diesels, this one too is an all-rounder. It will happily cruise in the city, give you fast performance on the highway, and consistently deliver respectable fuel economy.
The car comes equipped with speed warnings for 80 and 120 km/h and the beeps are loud and annoying. Further, the music volume is lowered when the beeps come on (Related thread)!
The suspension, I believe has been tweaked for the long wheelbase. There wasn't much to complain about in the regular 3, which is a near perfect setup. And this seems a tad bit more passenger-focused, with better refinement at low speeds (though the 330i we drove was on 18", while this rides on 17"). Bumps and general unevenness are taken care of without much noise or vibration being felt inside, and on the whole, the ride feels comfortable. At the same time, what is heartening to know is that the long-wheelbase 3 is still fun to drive. With the communicative and well-weighted steering, the suspension isn't sloppy at all, in spite of being softened for the LWB. The car needs to be really hustled, for one to feel that there is a tad bit more body roll, and a very slight bit of resistance to quick direction changes as compared to its sibling with a shorter wheelbase. This really makes the 320LD into a proper all-round package, one which can be sat in behind the chauffeur, and a car which can be pushed to the limit when needed.