Maruti Invicto Review

Maruti Invicto Pros
A great-looking MPV. SUV’ish styling packs appeal
Nicely designed interiors, good comfort in all 3 rows and usable boot (even with third-row up)
Many Maruti dealers across the country are currently offering faster delivery than that for the Innova Hycross
Loaded with features such as a panoramic sunroof, ventilated seats, dual-zone climate control, 360-degree camera, connected car features, leather upholstery, drive modes, paddle shifters, ambient lighting etc.
Hybrid powertrain makes it lighter on the pocket than a diesel and future-proof too. Very good fuel efficiency
Lower emissions will appeal to environmentally-conscious buyers. And those who aren’t ready for an EV yet
Impressively fast for an MUV. Very quick straight-line performance
Monocoque construction results in sorted handling, comfortable ride quality & overall better driving experience than a body-on-frame UV
Brilliant NVH levels result in a quiet and serene experience inside the cabin
Toyota's bullet-proof reliability combined with Maruti's excellent after-sales service and fuss-free ownership experiences
Safety features such as 6 airbags, ABS, ESP, TC, all-wheel disc brakes, hill hold, TPMS, ISOFIX & 3-point seatbelts for all

Maruti Invicto Cons
Expensive with on-road price crossing Rs. 35 lakhs. This is the most expensive car Maruti has ever sold
Toyota offers you a longer warranty, better badge (the big "T") and nameplate ("Innova")
Top-end variant is only available with captain seats in the middle row. No bench option is inexplicable!!
Innova Hycross has more features. Missing on the Maruti are Ottoman seats, ADAS, fore & aft adjustment levers on the second-row seatbacks, foglamps, 9-speaker JBL system etc.
17" wheels with 60 profile tyres compromise the overall stance; they look very small
Monocoque construction won’t be as rugged & abuse-friendly as a body-on-frame build
Interior plastic quality is very mediocre, some parts feel budget-grade
Non-hybrid regular petrol engine unavailable on Invicto (it is sold on the Hycross). Further, Invicto is available only in 4 colours and 2 variants
Poor sound quality from the 6-speaker system (subwoofer missing too), poor camera resolution and a basic infotainment system display
Both cars - the Invicto & Hycross - don't offer rain-sensing wipers or lumbar adjustment
The already-good ride quality could be even better with higher profile tyres (e.g. on craters)

Introduction
Since 2019, Maruti and Toyota started badge engineering each others' products in India. The first such car was the Toyota Glanza, which was a rebadged Maruti Baleno. It was followed by the Toyota Urban Cruiser (rebadged Maruti Vitara Brezza) and then the Maruti Grand Vitara (rebadged Toyota Urban Cruiser Hyryder). The latest to join this list is the Maruti Invicto, which is nothing but a rebadged Toyota Innova Hycross. The Invicto is built by Toyota at Bidadi, Karnataka and supplied to Maruti.
As we know, the Innova has been the benchmark MPV in India for many years. Since the Invicto is essentially the same car, Maruti can almost be assured of some success.
The Invicto went on sale earlier this month. It is powered by a petrol-hybrid powertrain with an e-CVT and front-wheel drive configuration. Unlike the Innova Hycross, the Invicto does not get a petrol engine option. There is no diesel engine on offer either. However, with the prices of petrol and diesel so close to each other and an efficient hybrid powertrain available, the case for diesel is not very strong. Besides, one has to remember that BS6 diesel cars have not had a very smooth run in India (read DPF issues).
The Invicto is available in 2 trim levels: Zeta+ and Alpha+. While the former is available in 7 & 8-seater configurations, the latter comes only as a 7-seater.
Maruti Invicto Price & Brochure
The Zeta+ 7 & 8-seater versions are priced at Rs. 24.79 lakh and Rs. 24.84 lakh (ex-showroom) respectively. The Alpha+ variant is available only as a 7-seater and is priced at Rs. 28.42 lakh. At this price, this is not a cheap car. In fact, it's the most expensive Maruti car ever sold in India. However, it is not as well equipped as the Innova Hycross and so, it manages to undercut Toyota's price. One can look at it as a Hycross at a slightly lower price albeit with lesser features.

Exterior
Design & Styling
Like the Innova Hycross, when it comes to styling, the Invicto is quite a head-turner. It looks very good for an MPV. Maruti has made only minor changes to distinguish it from its Toyota cousin. Still, it comes with an imposing radiator grille, raised bonnet line and muscular stance, which give it a good road presence.
The car gets a large grille, silver and chrome inserts, LED daytime running lights, headlamps and tail lamps, strong character lines on the sides, plastic cladding around the wheel arches and 17" alloy wheels. The vehicle is available in 4 single-tone body colours - Nexa Blue (Celestial), Mystic White, Majestic Silver and Stellar Bronze.

Build Quality, Fit & Finish
The Invicto has a monocoque construction. It is built on the Toyota New Global Architecture (TNGA) modular platform, which it shares with the Toyota Innova Hycross. The car is well-built. The doors & tailgate have a fair deal of weight to them and the bonnet is heavy. There’s a little bit of flex in the body panels. While the Invicto doesn't feel as solid as a premium European car, it's far from light or flimsy. The doors shut with a reassuring thud. Overall fit & finish are just as you'd expect from, what is essentially, a Toyota product. The Invicto has a kerb weight of 1,620 - 1,685 kg depending upon the variant.

Wheels & Tyres
Both variants (Zeta+ and Alpha+) come with 17" precision cut alloy wheels shod with 215/60 section tyres. The wheels are smaller than the Hycross' and the tyres are not as wide either. On the other hand, the tyre sidewalls are taller. Still, this wheel-tyre combo looks too small compared to the metal on top. It does not fill up the wheel arches very well.

Ground Clearance
The ground clearance of the Invicto is rated at 185 mm. It seems adequate for most users. We didn't scrape the car during our test, even when we took the car off-road for photography.

Standard & Extended Warranty
The Invicto comes with a standard warranty of 2 years / 40,000 km. Like all Maruti products, we expect the Invicto to be available with an extended warranty of up to 5 years / 1,00,000 km. The hybrid battery comes with a warranty of 8 years / 1,60,000 km. As is always the case, we strongly recommend extended warranty coverage.

Safety
The Invicto is loaded with safety features such as 3-point seatbelts for all occupants, 6 airbags, vehicle stability control, ABS, EBD, hill-hold, traction control, ISOFIX child seat mounts, SOS call, TPMS, front and rear parking sensors and a 360-degree camera system. However, unlike the Hycross, the Invicto is not equipped with ADAS. As of now, the Invicto has not been crash tested by Global NCAP or any other independent body.

Interior
Cabin Design & Quality
The Invicto's cabin is identical in design to the Hycross'. However, it uses an all-black theme with champagne gold inserts instead of the dual-tone dark chestnut theme with silver and glossy black inserts of the Toyota. Glass area is sufficient. The dark-coloured interior might not feel as "airy" as a beige cabin, but it will conceal any signs of soiling better than a lighter theme. While leather has been used on the dashboard, the part quality is mediocre and doesn't feel worthy of a car that costs 30 lakh rupees. The gear shifter is mounted on the centre fascia rather than the centre console and paddle shifters have been provided. Overall, the cabin feels well-built and durable. We didn't find any rough edges in the vehicle.

Space & Comfort
There is enough space at the front. The cabin width is healthy and so is the headroom. The electrically adjustable driver’s seat offers satisfactory support. It slides back enough even for tall drivers to feel comfortable. It comes with a memory function as well. Sadly, the passenger seat gets manual adjustment and no height adjustment. The black leather upholstery is of acceptable quality, with the right amount of cushioning and padding. Both front seats are ventilated as well - a boon in India's tropical climate. The centre console is high and provides a cossetting effect. It incorporates a fixed, long and wide leather-wrapped armrest which is placed at a comfortable height. The door pads too host useable armrests.

Driving Position & Ergonomics
Ergonomically, we found the Invicto to be user-friendly. The steering is good to hold, while the horn pad isn't hard to press. The horn itself is a nice-sounding, typically European dual-tone unit. The steering wheel is adjustable for height and reach, which makes getting the desired driving position easy. As mentioned earlier, the gear lever is mounted on the front fascia, which we found very user-friendly. All other controls are where you'd expect them to be and are easily accessible.
The driving position is very good with a clear view of the road ahead. Even the dashboard is not set very high. At 5'10", not only could I see over the dash, but also the bonnet. However, rearward visibility is restricted by the thick D-pillars. The driver's footwell gets a large & useable dead pedal.

Cabin Storage
The Invicto does fairly well in terms of cabin storage. Two cupholders can be pulled out from under the side air-con vents & two cupholders are located on the centre console. The door pockets are adequately sized and can hold a 1L bottle and knick-knacks. There is a deep storage bin under the centre armrest. On the passenger side, there is a long and slim compartment on the dashboard, just above the glovebox where the front passengers can store their smartphones. The glove box is medium-sized. It doesn't have a cooling vent or illumination. Coming to the rear, both front seats have seatback pockets with the left unit also getting a foldable bag hook. The rear door pads get pockets that can hold a 1L bottle and knick-knacks. Additionally, there is a foldable tray with a couple of cupholders between the second-row seats. The third-row occupants get individual cupholders on both sides along with storage spaces to keep their smartphones.

Air-Conditioning
The Maruti Invicto gets a dual-zone climate control system which is effective. During our test drive, the interior was chilled in seconds even on a hot summer day in the Thar desert. A pollution filter has also been provided.

Features
Unique & Noteworthy Features
The Invicto comes with features such as a panoramic sunroof and touchscreen head-unit with Android Auto and Apple CarPlay, connected car features (Suzuki Connect) with remote functionalities and 50+ connected features such as e-Care, remote power window close, remote seat ventilation, e-call, etc. Alexa connectivity with 30+ features, smartwatch connectivity, ventilated seats, paddle shifters, 360-degree camera, ambient lighting, auto-dimming IRVM and other such goodies. Standout features include a green laminated acoustic IR cut windshield, sunshades for the rear windows and an electric tailgate. The car also gets Eco, Sport and EV driving modes. A wireless charging pad can be purchased as an accessory. You have wireless Apple CarPlay connectivity, but strangely Android Auto is wired only. Rain-sensing wipers have been left out of the equipment list, which is a disappointment in such a premium car. Additionally, the Invicto does not get the JBL 9-speaker sound system (including subwoofer), ottoman seats and ADAS that are available in the Innova Hycross.

Audio System & Sound Quality
The Invicto gets a 10.1" SmartPlay Magnum touchscreen head-unit with a 6-speaker sound system, voice commands and Android Auto / Apple CarPlay. The size of the touchscreen is large and the interface is alright to use. However, visibility is not very good under direct sunlight. The doors hold a speaker each, while two speakers have been fitted in the dashboard.
The audio system is poor. It is nowhere close to what you'd expect even in a budget hatchback let alone a car as expensive as the Invicto. Even if you are not an audiophile you will be very disappointed. The speakers can’t handle even moderately high bass without vibrations and distortion when the volume is turned up a little. The cheaper MG Hector offers vastly superior sound quality. Maruti should try and get the amplifier and JBL 9-speakers system from the Hycross in the Invicto.

Rear Passengers
Rear Seat Comfort & Space
There’s excellent space for second-row passengers & your family members will be pleased. The two captain seats can accommodate even healthier occupants and just like the front, the cushioning is just right.
The second-row seats have individual folding armrests and a very long fore & aft travel range and a 6-footer will be able to comfortably sit behind a 6-feet tall driver. No complaints about headroom either. Even taller occupants will have enough clearance. The individual seats recline, offer good support and are comfortable. However, under-thigh support is inadequate, particularly for taller occupants. Passengers get rear air-con vents and two USB charging ports. The second-row seats of the Invicto do not get the ottomans that the Hycross has. Also, the second-row seats have to be reclined manually (the Hycross gets electrically reclining second-row seats).
You can access the third row of seats by sliding the second-row seats forward. Getting into the third row does take some effort. It is not easy for adults, more so if one is unfit. That said, it’s easier than many other 7-seaters I have experienced. Once in, you'll find that the last row of seats is actually pretty usable. They are placed at a decent height. Knee room is just adequate and even a 6-footer will be able to fit after sliding the second-row seat forward. Unlike the Innova Hycross, the Invicto doesn't get fore & aft adjustment levers on the seatbacks of the second-row captain seats. This means the third-row occupants will have to request the second-row passengers to slide their seats forward. There’s also enough headroom for third-row adults. You can recline the backrest as well. Coming to the width, two adults will fit in comfortably, but a third adult will not be welcome. Three children will easily fit in though. All in all, the third row is one of the best ones we have experienced. This makes the Maruti Invicto a proper 7-seater.
A 12V socket is placed on the left for charging gadgets with air vents along the sides of the roof.
Boot Space
The Invicto's boot space is rated at 239 litres. With all the seats up, there's some space left and the boot can only hold small-medium bags. With the third row of seats folded, things get much better and 690 litres of luggage space is available. The best part is, the cargo area has a completely flat floor with the third-row seats folded down.

Driving the Invicto 2.0L Hybrid
The Maruti Invicto is powered by a Strong Hybrid Electric System with a 2.0-litre 4-cylinder petrol engine. The car has a 168-cell Ni-MH battery that powers the electric motor. Its combined power is 184 BHP and motor torque is 206 Nm. The engine is paired to an e-CVT with sequential shift.
With your foot on the brake pedal, press the engine start button. It doesn't result in the usual sound of a starter cranking the engine to life; it's eerily silent & for those who haven't experienced electric or hybrid cars before, this does take a little getting used to. Slot the gear lever into D and you're all set to roll.
One of the first things you notice is the absence of a rev counter. It sure feels weird to drive a car without the rpm needle moving up & down. The instant torque from the electric motor ensures that the Invicto immediately darts forward. Low-end torque is good. In heavy traffic, you can drive the car without any throttle input. The petrol engine turns on only when extra shove is required, or if the batteries are below a certain charge level. The engine also switches on when the car crosses ~40 km/h. While the insulation is superb & regular folk won't know, enthusiasts will notice when the petrol engine suddenly kicks in. Whether it is driving in bumper-to-bumper traffic or closing gaps, the Invicto does it effortlessly. The e-CVT provides a seamless experience in the city. As there aren't any actual gear shifts taking place, the drive feels amazingly smooth. Throttle response is good and the rubber-band effect is well-controlled with a light foot on the accelerator. These traits make the Invicto very easy to drive in the city.
On the open road too, the Invicto provides satisfactory performance. There is enough power and torque on offer to keep up with the traffic with ease. The powertrain responds well to throttle inputs and power is always available. Outright performance is strong. Toyota claims that the Hycross can do a 0-100 km/h sprint in under 10 seconds. We believe that the Invicto can achieve this performance too. Slow-moving vehicles are overtaken without any drama. In terms of cruisability, the Invicto proves to be a good mile muncher. It can maintain triple-digit speeds effortlessly. At the same time, the cabin is quiet, cutting out most of the outside noises.
The Invicto gets drive modes that basically alter the throttle response as well as the behaviour of the internal combustion engine. There is a dedicated EV mode button that will let you drive the car as an EV for the max distance possible. However, if you are heavy on the throttle or the car crosses ~40 km/h or the battery's state of charge is too low, the system will go back from EV mode to hybrid mode.
Apart from the EV mode, there are 3 drive modes: Normal, Eco and Power. These 3 modes alter the throttle response.
The Normal mode is the default mode which is in the middle of Eco and Power modes. It works well in town and on the highway and offers a good balance between efficiency and performance. In fact, you really don't need to change it unless you're driving uphill or want to overtake a vehicle quickly on an undivided highway.
In Eco mode, the internal combustion engine doesn't come on as easily unless you press the throttle a lot more. The response is lazier and it tries to keep it in hybrid mode with the internal combustion engine only charging the battery and not sending power to the wheels unless the accelerator is pressed very firmly.
In Power mode, it's the opposite. Even with a light dab of the throttle, the internal combustion motor comes alive and assists the power delivery. On undivided highways, this is the mode to use to pull off safe overtakes. Throttle response is much sharper and you rarely see the internal combustion engine turning off. Of course, this mode impacts fuel efficiency the most. Don't use this mode in the city as power delivery can get a little spiky.
The gearbox also has a manual mode. You can use the gear shifter or the paddles behind the steering wheel to change gears. You'll like the engine braking on offer. The gearbox has an "S" mode too in which the transmission holds the gears for a little longer than in the regular D mode.

Noise, Vibration & Harshness (NVH)
The Invicto's NVH levels are impressive. The car does a good job of keeping most noises out of the cabin most of the time. It's only when you press the accelerator harder that you can hear the 2.0L petrol engine. With the accelerator on the floor, the engine gets loud and intrusive. Accelerate gradually and the cabin remains impressively quiet as the speed builds up. In fact, the insulation is so good that on the go, even the horn of the car is heard very faintly inside the cabin! We did not feel any vibrations even when the petrol motor came on.
Wind noise starts creeping into the cabin above 105 km/h and increases with the speed. Road noise is average.

Mileage & Fuel economy
The Invicto has an ARAI rating of 23.24 km/l. In our short drive, which included some fast driving we saw 16 km/l on the MID. With better driving, we are pretty sure that the hybrid will deliver much better FE figures.

Suspension & Ride Comfort
The Maruti Invicto gets a MacPherson strut suspension at the front and a torsion beam suspension setup at the rear. The suspension is well-tuned to provide a compliant ride. The car rides on 17" rims with 215/60 section tyres. While the sidewalls are taller than the Hycross', they are still rather short. So while the ride is slightly better than the Toyota, it is still far from plush. More bumps and potholes are transmitted to the occupants than we would like. While the ride is still fine, we are pretty sure that it would be better with taller rubber. Even with speeds increasing, the ride remains compliant. We didn't get to check the ride out on very bad roads though.

Handling & Dynamics
High-speed stability is very good. Even at 120 km/h, there is no floatiness or nervousness displayed by the Invicto. While we did not get a winding road to try out the car's handling, we did try some quick lane changes on an empty stretch of road. As expected, the Invicto has more body roll compared to a sedan or crossover. The tyres provide adequate grip and the car sticks to its line through curves. Overall, the Invicto certainly feels quite car-like to drive.

Steering
The Invicto gets electric power steering that is well-calibrated. It is light at slow speeds and gets heavier as the speed goes up. This along with the healthy rake and reach adjustment, makes the Invicto easy to steer. That said, the steering could do with more feedback.

Braking
Being a hybrid, braking is different compared to conventional cars. With disc brakes all around, the stopping power is good. But the braking needs time to get used to. It's not easy to get a linear braking response. Sometimes you hit a bump faster than you intended to since the braking isn't linear. This needs getting used to. It will catch you off guard initially, but after a while, you get accustomed to it and change your braking style accordingly.

Maruti Invicto Exterior Images
Front end features a large radiator grille that resembles those on other Maruti cars, raised bonnet line and a wide bumper. These give the car an SUVish appearance.
Rear end features multiple cuts and creases and subtle use of chrome. No effort has been made to hide the tailpipe.
Strong character lines on the side attempt to make the Invicto look less like an MUV. However, the wheel-tyre combo looks too small for the metal on top.
Cuts and creases all over the body give the car a muscular stance. Black plastic cladding on the sides and around the wheel arches gives it a rugged look.
The Invicto measures 4,755 mm in length, 1,850 mm in width and 1,790 mm in height with a wheelbase of 2,850 mm. These figures are identical to the Innova Hycross.
Automatic twin LED headlamps do not get the auto high beam feature of the Hycross. Headlamp clusters house the DRLs.
NEXTre' LED DRLs are bright and prominent. They come on only when the transmission is put in "D".
Bold radiator grille has a glossy black finish and gets chrome inserts along with a thick chrome border. The front camera for the 360-degree camera system is located below the "S" badge.
Front bumper houses a wide air dam, turn indicators, four parking sensors, a thick glossy black insert in the middle and a faux silver skid plate. No foglamps have been provided.
Linear LED turn-indicators get glossy black housings that have a honeycomb mesh detailing.
While there is some underbody protection at the front, it really does not stretch back much.
Bonnet has very prominent creases.
Wiper spindles and washers are concealed under the bonnet.
ORVMs get integrated LED turn indicators and chrome inserts.
Puddle lamps and cameras for the 360-degree camera system are located underneath the ORVMs.
Door handles get chrome inserts. Only the driver's door gets a keyhole. The request sensor is placed on top of the handle.
While the quarter glass is small, the overall glass area is sufficient. The window line rises as you go towards the rear and D-pillar is thick.
Strong creases on the side. One flows from the rear body panel to the door. In the unfortunate event of an accident, repairing this will be difficult.
17" precision cut alloy wheels shod with 215/60 section Apollo Apterra Cross tyres do not fill the wheel arches. Taller rubber would have helped improve the stance of the car as well as the ride. The rear wheels are equipped with disc brakes.
Both front and rear wheel wells get full cladding on the inside.
Sticker on the inside of the fuel flap informs you about the diet of the Invicto. There is a small "P" on the cap as well. Fuel tank capacity = 52 litres.
Alpha+ variant of the Invicto gets a panoramic sunroof.
Rear section of the roof is ribbed and carries a sharkfin antenna. Notice the glossy black plastic piece that helps the roof spoiler gel with the D-pillar design.
Roof spoiler also houses the HMSL.
NEXTre' LED tail-lamp clusters get glossy black separators. Notice the aero fin on the side.
Rear windshield is adequately sized. Tailgate gets a chrome strip just below the windshield and houses badges that depict the model and powertrain.
Rear camera is tucked away above the number plate (on the left). In a car this long, you're going to need it while reversing.
Dual tone rear bumper gets honeycomb mesh detailing along with slim reflectors. It houses 4 parking sensors.
Spare wheel is a 16" steel unit shod with a 205/65 section tyre. It is carried under the body. Unlike the Hycross, the tailpipe here doesn't get a chrome tip.
Apart from the Nexa Blue shade of our test car, the Invicto is available in 3 colours - Mystic White, Majestic Silver and Stellar Bronze. Here it is in Stellar Bronze.

Maruti Invicto Interior Images
All-black dashboard with champagne gold and silver inserts looks good and feels well put together. However, part quality is very mediocre.
Tall and commanding driving position. You can see a fair bit of the bonnet from the driver's seat.
A-pillar is not very thick and does not hamper visibility. Quarter glass helps matters too.
A speaker is located at the base of each A-pillar.
Leather-wrapped multifunction steering with thumb contours is chunky and nice to hold. It has silver inserts on the lower spokes and between the buttons on the left and right spokes. The horn pad is light to press.
Steering wheel houses buttons for controlling the infotainment, telephone, voice commands, MID and cruise control. The buttons are well-sized (including the font).
Paddle shifters on either side of the steering - one on the left is for shifting down and vice versa.
The steering offers tilt & telescopic adjustment. Both have a healthy range.
Instrument cluster comes with an Eco reading on the left (no rev counter), a speedometer in the middle and fuel and temperature gauges on the right. It is clean and easy to read.
Speedometer and MID change colour according to the drive mode selected - Blue for Normal, Green for Eco and Red for Power. MID also gives a readout if the EV mode is selected.
A host of information is relayed by the MID.
Thick stalks give positive feedback and are great to use. Auto headlamps have been provided. At this price, I would've expected auto rain-sensing wipers too.
Both variants get keyless entry & go. The engine start button gets a silver ring.
The side vents have thick champagne gold and silver surrounds and inserts. Like the Hycross, you get retractable cupholders under the side vents.
Headlight leveller and button for opening the tailgate opening are located to the right of the steering wheel. No auto high beam as the Invicto doesn't get ADAS.
Flip-up levers for the bonnet & fuel lid.
Door pads have gold, silver and leather inserts and house the front speakers. The quality of materials used is acceptable.
The door handle is finished in chrome. Buttons for the seat memory function are located above.
Fittings and functions are identical to the Hycross.
Door pockets are large and can accommodate a 1L bottle and other knick-knacks.
The cabin has sufficient width, thus two hefty passengers sitting side by side won't be elbowing each other. The headroom at the front is generous. Ventilated front seats are firm & wide. They get 8-way electric adjustment, but nothing for lumbar support. Still, they offer good support and are draped in quilted black leather upholstery which is of good quality, with the right amount of cushioning and padding. The adjustable headrests are comfortable.
A close-up of the leather upholstery and white contrast stitching.
Manual adjustment for the front passenger seat. It lacks height adjustment as well.
Driver armrest is clad in leather and the surface is soft. It’s not adjustable, but is conveniently placed.
Seatbelts are adjustable for height. They get pre-tensioners & load limiters.
Batteries for the hybrid system are placed under the front seats.
The footwell is wide enough and the dead pedal is huge! It is positioned perfectly and can even accommodate large-sized shoes.
ORVMs are wide and offer an excellent view of the happenings behind. As mentioned earlier, the Invicto does not get ADAS and hence, no blind-spot warnings.
IRVM size is just adequate & it comes with an auto-dimming function.
Centre fascia is predominantly finished in glossy black and has a thick champagne gold border. The touchscreen head-unit sticks out at the top while the gear shifter is mounted below the climate control system.
10.1-inch touchscreen head-unit gets Android Auto & Apple CarPlay connectivity. Note that only Apple CarPlay can be connected wirelessly, not Android Auto.
Music is played through a 6-speaker sound system, but despite the number of adjustments, the sound quality is poor.
360-degree camera offers multiple views. Display quality is poor for a car of this class though.
The Invicto gets a dual-zone climate control system with a pollution filter. Air-con vents have silver inserts. Along with the control panel, they get a glossy black console. Buttons to operate the seat ventilation are placed here as well.
Chunky gear shifter is good to hold and operate. It has a glossy black console. Manual mode can be engaged by shifting the lever to D and then to the right. Switches for the 360-degree camera, drive modes, EV mode and traction control are located next to it along with the electronic parking brake and auto-hold switch.
C-Type and A-Type USB ports are located at the base of the centre fascia.
Bird's eye view of the centre console. Two cupholders with a thick gold border are located just ahead of the centre armrest.
Under the driver's armrest is a deep storage box with a carpeted base.
Left side of the dashboard has a narrow storage space that can hold slim items such as smartphones.
12V charging socket is located on the right.
The glove box is medium-sized and opens with a damped action. It does not get compartments, illumination or cooling.
Roof bezel holds the controls for the sunroof and cabin lights as well as a button for the SOS e-call.
Bluetooth mic is mounted on the roof. Should have been integrated into the roof bezel.
Sunvisors are thick and feel good to the touch. Driver's side unit gets a ticket holder.
Both sun visors get vanity mirrors with covers and illumination.
Both variants get 6 airbags.
Massive panoramic sunroof lets in a lot of light, making the cabin feel airy.
Sunroof opens outwards and goes a long way back. The wind deflector rises when you open the sunroof to prevent wind from entering the cabin; it reduces wind noise too.
Blue LED ambient lighting along the sunroof and footwells.
Smartkey looks premium with a glossy blue insert and glossy black buttons and silver inserts.
Door pads get the same theme as the ones in the front (leather, gold and silver inserts). Rear speakers are housed on them.
Rear windows get manual roll-up sunshades for protection against the sun and some privacy.
Just like the front, the rear door pockets are large and can accommodate a lot of items including 1L bottles.
Healthy legroom in the second row. A long fore & aft travel range for the seats means no one is likely to complain about poor legroom. However, rear passengers cannot slide their feet under the front seats as the batteries are placed there. The floor is flat.
There is enough legroom for three 6-footers to sit comfortably behind each other. Headroom is abundant too and individual folding armrests have been provided. However, the second-row seats are placed low and do not provide good under-thigh support. Second-row seats do not get ottomans or electric reclining functions like in the Hycross. They can be reclined manually though.
Rear window is large and lets in a lot of light.
A folding tray with two cupholders is attached to the RHS seat.
Both second-row seats get ISOFIX child seat mounts.
Seatbacks of the front seats are scooped out to liberate more knee room. Seatback pockets have been provided for the second-row occupants to use.
A folding bag hook has been provided on the left seatback.
Switches and display for the rear climate control system are placed at the end of the centre console.
Two USB charging points are located below.
Air-con vents, cabin lamps and springloaded grab handles with coat hooks are mounted along the roof for second-row occupants to use.
Second-row seatbelts can be parked in a clean way when not in use. Unlike in the Hycross, the seatbelt clips don't get dedicated holders.
Ambient lighting for the second row is provided on the B-pillars.
To get into the third row, one has to move the second-row seat forward. Though not as difficult as some other cars, getting in and out of the third row is still best suited to the young and fit. It involves a bit of bending and twisting.
Third-row is designed for three occupants with headrests and 3-point seatbelts for all passengers. However, it can realistically seat only two adults or three children. Backrest is split in a 50:50 ratio and can be reclined. There is enough legroom for a 6-footer, but taller passengers will find the under-thigh support lacking. No levers have been provided on the second-row seats for the third-row passengers to slide them forward.
Seatbelt for the middle passenger is mounted on the roof. The cabin light is located next to it.
Left and right seatbelts can be parked away when not in use.
Third-row window is small. Yet, it offers a decent view of the happenings outside.
Air-con vents and fixed grab handles are present on both.
Two cupholders and cubbyholes to keep smartphones are present on both sides.
A 12V power outlet has been provided on the left.
Even with the third-row seats in place, there is space left over for a couple of medium-sized bags.
When not in use, the headrest for the middle passenger of the third row can be stowed away in the boot. Two holes have been provided on the left where it fits in perfectly.
Boot light with a switch is located on the right.
Third-row backrest can be folded down in a 50:50 ratio which enables you to carry a combination of passengers and cargo.
Folding the third-row seats down gives you a flat loading bay and 690 litres of cargo space.
Tailgate can be operated electrically. You can set the opening height as well