2024 Maruti Dzire Review

Maruti Dzire Pros
5-star safety rating at the GNCAP! Safety features such as 6 airbags, 3-point seatbelts for all, TPMS, 360-degree camera, ESP, hill-hold assist, ISOFIX child seat mounts etc.
Sharp & contemporary styling - the best looking compact sedan on sale today
Smart-looking interior with a nice dashboard & fine ergonomics
We feel the Dzire is well-priced for the package on offer
Manual transmission with short throws is very slick, and a joy to use. Absolutely brilliant MT!
Great drivability and light controls, along with a small footprint make it a joy in the city
Choice of sporty MT and convenient AMT - take your pick. CNG variants available for those with high running
3-cylinder engine is fuel-efficient; ARAI rating of 25.71 km/l for the AMT, 24.79 km/l for the MT and 33.73 km/kg for the CNG
Suspension offers a compliant ride & neutral on-road behaviour
Long list of features including automatic LED headlamps, LED DRLs, LED foglamps, cruise control, 9-inch touchscreen HU paired with an Arkamys sound system, rear A/C vents, wireless smartphone charging, footwell lighting, connected car features etc.
Maruti's widespread service network, excellent after-sales support & fuss-free ownership experiences

Maruti Dzire Cons
1.2L petrol is not fast & exciting enough for enthusiasts. Not as refined as the outgoing 4-cylinder, nor as powerful (power has actually dropped to just 81 BHP)
Lacks the solid build of some rivals. Panel gaps could be tighter too
Mediocre plastic quality (interiors) is typical Maruti-grade; very ordinary
AMT can get jerky & slow. Some competitors offered smoother ATs (e.g. Amaze CVT, Aura AMT)
382 litre boot is 5-10% smaller than all competitors. While cargo capacity is still fair, the boot lip is high, and the mouth is narrower than the others
Light coloured interiors are prone to getting soiled easily
Rear seats under-thigh support is mediocre for taller passengers
Some misses (auto-dimming IRVM, front armrest, driving modes, smaller spare tyre on the Z trims...)
L & V variants get horribly skinny 165 mm tyres. For safety reasons, please upgrade to at least 185 mm tyres if you buy these trims
163 mm ground clearance (unladen) raises our eyebrows, although Maruti cars aren't known to scrape speed breakers

Introduction
The Maruti Dzire has dominated the sub-4 meter sedan segment in India. Since the launch of the first-generation car back in 2008, it has sold more than 27 lakh units! It is India's fourth highest-selling car of all time and the country's highest-selling sedan. In recent times, it has been locked in a battle with WagonR, Swift and Baleno to become Maruti's highest-selling car every month, regularly selling more than 15,000 units.
While some of its competitors such as the Ford Aspire and VW Ameo have exited the scene, the remaining players (Honda Amaze, Hyundai Aura and Tata Tigor) come nowhere close to Dzire's sales figures. With the fourth-generation car, Maruti expects it to continue dominating the segment like its predecessors did.
The design of the car has been reworked and at first glance, it doesn't look anything like the third-gen. However, look at the car's cabin area from the side, and you will notice the similarity between the two generations. Coming to the size, barring its height (10 mm taller than before), the dimensions of the new car are identical to that of the outgoing one. The wheelbase and ground clearance are also identical to that of the old car. However, there is a marginal increase in the boot space (4 litres) and the minimum kerb weight has increased by 40 kg.
The big change is in the engine department. The car comes with the new Z-Series 1.2-litre, 3-cylinder petrol unit that puts out 81 BHP and 112 Nm. This is 1 cylinder, 8 BHP and 1 Nm lesser than the K-series engine of the outgoing car. Like before, there is a 5-speed MT and 5-speed AMT to choose from. There is also a petrol+CNG (bi-fuel) version that develops 69 BHP and 102 Nm and comes with a 5-speed MT.

Maruti Dzire Price & Brochure
The Maruti Dzire petrol is available in five variants - LXi (MT), VXi (MT), VXi (AMT), ZXi (MT), ZXi (AMT), ZXi+ (MT) and ZXi (AMT) variants. Prices start at Rs. 6.79 lakh and go all the way up to Rs. 10.14 lakh (ex-showroom Delhi). The Dzire bi-fuel comes in VXi (MT) and ZXi MT variants priced at Rs. 8.74 and 9.84, respectively (ex-showroom Delhi). You can find the full price list at this link.
Additionally, Maruti is offering two accessory packs with the Dzire - Copperico and Chromico which add cosmetic updates to the exterior and interior of the car. These will cost over and above the price of the car.

Exterior
Design & Styling
As mentioned earlier,  at first glance, the fourth-gen Dzire looks radically different from the outgoing car. The styling of the bonnet and boot is nothing like the old car and unlike older Dzires, there is no similarity to the Swift hatchback at all. The restyled front and rear give the car a more premium and aggressive look than earlier generations.
However, not all things are different. Viewed from the side, the cabin area looks very similar to the third-gen car. The glass area and doors are very similar if not identical to the outgoing car.
Some notable features on the outside include new smoky LED crystal vision headlamps with LED DRLs, black radiator grille, LED fog lamps, auto-folding ORVMs, 3D Trinity LED tail-lamps, sharkfin antenna, boot lip spoiler and 15-inch precision cut two-tone alloy wheels. The car is offered in 7 single-tone colour options - Gallant Red, Alluring Blue, Nutmeg Brown, Bluish Black, Arctic White, Magma Grey, and Splendid Silver. The first three shades in this list are new.
The Dzire measures 3,995 mm in length, 1,735 mm in width and 1,525 mm in height (10 mm more than the outgoing car). It has a wheelbase of 2,450 mm and a ground clearance of 163 mm, which are identical figures to the outgoing car.

Build Quality, Fit & Finish
The Dzire is built on the fifth-generation HEARTECT platform which also underpins the Swift. It comes with a body shell featuring 45% high tensile steel and bake-hardened material for better dent performance. The car has a kerb weight of 920-960 kg depending upon the variant. The bonnet has a fair deal of weight while the doors, though not heavy, are not very light either. There is a little flex when the sheet metal is pressed with your thumb. The boot lid, on the other hand, is extremely light and feels rather flimsy. Overall build quality is acceptable though.
The body panel gaps are uniform for the most part. But the shut lines could have been tighter. The paint quality is par for the course.

Wheels & Tyres
The ZXi+ variant that we drove comes with 15-inch, precision cut two-tone alloy wheels shod with 185/65 section Ceat SecuraDrive tyres. The wheel and tyre combo fills up the wheel arches well and looks proportionate to the metal on top. The ZXi variant gets 15-inch single-tone alloy wheels with the same tyre size. L & V variants get 14-inch steel rims with 165/80 section tyres.
The spare wheel in all variants is a 14-inch steel unit with a 165/80 section tyre. Maruti should've given a full-size spare on the top-end variant.

Ground Clearance
The fourth-gen Dzire has a ground clearance of 163 mm, which is identical to the third-gen car. While we didn't scrape over any bumps, we didn't load the car up with 4 passengers & luggage either. Team-BHP ownership reports will tell the real-world story.

Standard & Extended Warranty
The Dzire, like other Maruti cars, comes with a standard warranty of 3 years or 1,00,000 km. Extended warranty can be availed for up to 6 years or 1,60,000 km. As always, we strongly recommend you get maximum coverage.

Safety
The Dzire is loaded with safety features like 6 airbags, ESP, hill hold assist, ABS with EBD and brake assist, 3-point seat belts with reminders for all occupants, rear defogger, traction control and reverse parking sensors. Additionally, the ZXi and ZXi+ variants get a reverse parking camera and a 360-degree camera respectively. The Z variants get a TPMS too.
The fourth-gen Dzire has been awarded a 5-star safety rating by Global NCAP. This is the first time a Maruti car has received the full 5 stars.

Interior
Cabin Design & Quality
Unlike the exterior, the interior of the Dzire is similar to that of the Swift. Most parts are shared with the hatchback. The dashboard is new and has a neutral design with a pleasant layout. Most people will like it. It has a beige & black dual-tone theme with silver inserts. A faux wood insert on the dashboard and piano black has been used on the centre fascia and around the touchscreen head-unit and climate control console. Like most modern cars, the Dzire now gets a tablet-like touchscreen head-unit instead of one integrated into the dashboard.
The seat upholstery is beige, while the doorpads are beige & black and the carpets are black. The beige parts will likely get soiled and require regular cleaning to keep clean in the long run. The leather-wrapped, flat-bottom steering wheel is shared with other Maruti cars. It gets a silver insert.
The plastics on the dashboard are all hard. While the fit is satisfactory with no sharp edges or ill-fitted items, the overall quality of the plastics is ordinary. Most of the switchgear is taken from other Maruti cars. The buttons and switches feel good to use and appear durable. They are far from premium though. While the interiors are well put together, the front passenger seat in our test car was creaking when someone was sitting in it. Additionally, the driver's door required some effort to shut.

Space & Comfort
Ingress & egress are easy and you can get into the car without any difficulty. Once inside, there is enough space in the front. The cabin width is healthy and the headroom is adequate. The seats are upholstered in fabric, which is of satisfactory quality. While there is no lumbar adjustment, the seats offer good overall support. The cushioning is on the softer side (though not excessive) and spending long hours in them shouldn't be a problem. The driver seat gets height adjustment and can slide back far enough even for tall occupants to feel comfortable. A centre armrest and adjustable seatbelts could have enhanced the comfort levels though. The armrests on the front doorpads get a fabric wrapping where one would place his elbow. Overall, the front seats are nice to be in and most users will find the experience to be pleasant.

Driving Position & Ergonomics
In the driver's seat, you'll get acquainted with all the controls pretty quickly. The three-spoke, leather-wrapped steering is perfectly sized and lovely to hold, while the horn pad is easily reachable with your thumbs. The steering is adjustable for height but not reach. Still, it is easy to find the perfect driving position. The frontal view is good too.
The basic ergonomics of the Dzire are pretty much perfect. Everything is exactly where you would expect it to be and within easy reach of the driver. The only real complaint that I had was regarding the positioning of the dead pedal in the MT. The clutch is placed too close to it and as a result, you will always find it coming in the way of your foot while you press the clutch. This gets very annoying, particularly in stop-go traffic.

Cabin Storage
There are a fair number of storage spaces in the cabin. You get a fairly sized glovebox, front doorpads that can hold a 1-litre bottle along with some other items, two cupholders in the centre console and a wireless smartphone charging pad at the base of the centre fascia. There is also a shallow storage space under the handbrake and a slot to keep a smartphone on the centre console above the rear A/C vents. The left front seatback has a pocket for rear passengers to use. The rear doorpads can hold a 1-litre bottle and other smaller items. A centre armrest with two cupholders has been provided for the rear passengers.

Air-Conditioning
The Z variant of the Dzire comes with a climate control unit and has physical switches that feel nice to use. In the ZXi and ZXi+ variants, air vents have been provided at the rear as well. On a hot day in Goa, the A/C functioned very well to keep us cool.
The L and V variants get a regular HVAC unit with no rear air vents.

Features
Unique & Noteworthy Features
The list of features in the Dzire includes keyless entry & go, auto LED headlamps with Lead Me to Vehicle & Follow Me Home functions, LED DRLs, LED tail-lamps, reversing camera, sunroof, auto-folding ORVMs, multi-function steering, cruise control, automatic climate control, three-point seatbelts for all occupants, front footwell lighting, wireless smartphone phone, 12V power outlet & USB port at the front, charging pad, rear centre armrest, rear A/C vents, rear reading lamps, and two
USB charging ports at the rear.
The Dzire gets a 9-inch touchscreen head-unit with wireless Apple CarPlay and Android Auto connectivity and comes with an in-built telematics (Suzuki Connect). The system also gets an onboard voice assistant (wake up through "Hi Suzuki" and barge-in feature) and over-the-air updates.  Users can experience connected car features ranging from safety and security, location and trips, vehicle information and alerts, and other functionalities. They can remotely access functions like battery health, door locking, headlamps off, and more through the Suzuki Connect app on a smartphone, smartwatch and Alexa Skill. The touchscreen also serves as a display for the 360-degree HD camera.
There are some missing features as well. These include rain-sensing wipers, seat lumbar adjustment, front centre armrest, auto-dimming IRVM and illumination & cooling for the glovebox.

Audio System & Sound Quality
Maruti offers a 9-inch touchscreen with its SmartPlay Pro+ infotainment system in the ZXi+ variant. The user interface is simple and easy to get used to and the display is crisp and clear. It's extremely smooth and seamless in operation. A physical rotary knob for the volume control and power on/off would have been nice to have though. Music is played through 4 speakers & 2 tweeters and is tuned by Arkamys.
In terms of audio quality, it's quite acceptable especially when you get the settings right. There are presets to choose from as well. This is a well-rounded system for a car of this segment.

Rear Passengers
Rear Seat Comfort & Space
The rear doors open sufficiently wide, but the roof of the car is on the lower side. The rear seat is also placed lower than we would like, which means you have to 'sit down' in the car. This makes ingress & egress inconvenient for taller people, although average-sized users should not have a problem. Overall, the rear seats are comfortable. The cushioning is on the softer side, though not too soft.
The seat comes with 2 adjustable headrests and 3-point seatbelts for all 3 passengers. However, it is not wide, the floor hump is prominent and the centre console takes up some legroom. This means that the rear seat is suitable for only 2 adults and a child at best. A third adult will not be welcome.
The knee room at the rear is adequate and there's a good amount of headroom as well. At 5'10", I had more than 2 inches of knee room to spare while sitting behind my driving position. There is also space under the front seats to slide one's feet into. Overall, the space is adequate for most passengers. The backrest is also set at a comfortable angle. The under-thigh support is sufficient for most people, but taller occupants will find it less for their liking. As mentioned earlier, centre armrest with two cupholders has been provided. Rear occupants get A/C vents and two fast-charging USB ports (Type A and Type C ports) for charging their smartphones.

Boot Space
The Dzire has a boot space of 382 litres which is 4 litres more than the outgoing car. However, this is lesser than competitors such as the Honda Amaze (420 litres) Hyundai Aura (402 litres) and Tata Tigor (419 litres). Still, it's quite usable and enough for a family's weekend luggage.

Driving the Maruti Dzire 1.2L Petrol MT
1.2L, 3-cylinder Z-Series petrol engine makes 81 BHP @ 5,700 rpm and 112 Nm @ 4,300 rpm.
The fourth-gen Dzire is powered by a 1.2L, 3-cylinder petrol engine. This unit is mated to a 5-speed manual transmission and puts out 81 BHP and 112 Nm. These numbers are lesser than the outgoing car (4-cylinder, 89 BHP & 113 Nm). With a kerb weight of 920 kg, the power-to-weight ratio & torque-to-weight ratio are 88 BHP/ton & 122 Nm/ton respectively. These are considerably lower than the outgoing car. This means that the new car is not as fast a performer as the previous generation car. It can be termed as brisk at best.
Start the engine by pressing the light clutch and hitting the engine start/stop button. Ease off the clutch and the Dzire moves off the line smoothly without any throttle input. Throttle response is good and power delivery is linear. Driving about at city speeds, the car feels smooth. Good driveability is the key here. The car can pull from as low as 500 rpm without any clutch input albeit with a judder. Even in second gear, we managed to start off without any accelerator input by gently releasing the clutch. The engine doesn't struggle at low revs and the car can keep up with the traffic without the driver having to shift down too often. This trait combined with a small footprint and light controls makes the Dzire very easy to drive around in the city. The engine starts feeling comfortable at 1,500 rpm. The car is relaxed doing 60 km/h in 4th gear with the engine spinning at 1,750 rpm. It starts pulling well above 2,750 rpm.
On the open road, the Dzire can be described as a brisk performer. It is not as fast or exciting. The power delivery is linear and doesn't feel urgent at all. Enthusiastic drivers won't be very impressed by the performance. However, it's not slow and with proper use of the gears, good progress can be made.
There is decent mid-range delivery, but in order to facilitate quick overtaking manoeuvres, it's advisable to shift down to a lower gear. The engine revs up to 6,000 rpm, which is where the redline starts. The fuel starts cutting off a little earlier (~5,900 rpm), which can catch you out in the middle of an overtaking manoeuvre. This, coupled with the lack of power means that passing slower vehicles needs some careful planning. In terms of cruiseability, in 5th gear, 100 km/h is seen at 2,500 rpm while 120 km/h is achieved at 3,000 rpm.
One thing to note is that the engine sounds good at high revvs. While the typical 3-cylinder thrum is present, the sound is pleasing when revved.
The 5-speed manual transmission is an absolute joy to operate. The throws are short and the shift action is very smooth. With well-defined gates, the gearbox is sure-slotting and it's very hard to miss a shift. The clutch is very light and the travel range is medium.

Noise, Vibration & Harshness (NVH)
Straight off the bat, the 3-cylinder Z12E lacks the refinement of the K12 motor that we've been so used to. However, it is not bad by any means. There is a very slight shake of the body as the engine cranks and at idle, you will feel mild vibrations on the steering. But, there is no engine noise heard at all. If it were not for the vibrations, one would be hard-pressed to tell if the engine is running.
While driving around calmly, the engine sound doesn't bother the cabin. However, as the revs climb, the engine makes itself heard a lot more in the cabin. While it's a likeable sound for enthusiasts, other occupants might complain as things get louder at higher revs.
We didn't experience any wind noise at 100 km/h. Road noise and tyre noise are average.

Mileage & Fuel Economy
Maruti claims that the fourth-gen Dzire is the most fuel-efficient sedan in India. The 1.2-litre naturally aspirated petrol has an ARAI-certified fuel efficiency of 24.79 km/l for the MT and 25.71 km/l for the AMT.
Maruti has equipped the Dzire with an idling start/stop function to improve fuel efficiency. This feature worked seamlessly on our test drive and was not intrusive. It can be turned off by pressing a button on the centre fascia.
The CNG version has an ARAI FE rating of 33.73 km/kg.
Bonnet gets insulation underneath and helps keep the noise levels low.
Sufficient insulation on the firewall.
Sticker on the inside of the fuel flap to indicate its dietary preferences. Yes, the Dzire is E20 compliant. A black plastic spill protector is provided below the fuel cap. Fuel tank capacity = 37 litres.

Suspension & Ride Comfort
The Dzire comes with a ubiquitous McPherson strut suspension setup at the front and a torsion beam setup at the rear. The overall urban ride quality is compliant. At lower speeds, a slight firmness is felt due to the 15" wheels, yet it's never uncomfortable. Small bumps on the road are absorbed quite well. There is no choppiness or bumpiness either. Even at the rear, bumps are not jarring for occupants. What is impressive is the way Maruti has managed to make the suspension function silently.
The Z variants ride on 15-inch wheels with 185/65 section tyres and the recommended tyre pressure is 29 PSI. Lower variants come with 14-inch rims fitted with 165/80 section rubber. These should provide a better ride.
On the open road, most bumps and undulations won't bother you. However, large and sharp bumps make themselves felt. Go fast over these and the ride can suffer.
Torsion beam suspension at the rear.

Handling & Dynamics
Straight-line stability is very good for a car in this segment and occupants won't even know that the car is cruising at triple-digit speeds. Expansion joints on the highway do not unsettle it.
On long curves, the car holds its line well. Push the car on twisty roads and you will experience some body roll, but it's very well-controlled. The car changes direction without fuss and feels very sure-footed. Our test car came with 185/65 R15 Ceat SecuraDrive tyres, which will provide enough grip for most drivers. However, drive enthusiastically and they will squeal at the first opportunity.
The overall driving dynamics of the new Dzire can be termed as satisfactory.

Steering
The Dzire gets an electric power steering, which is very user-friendly. It's light in the city and most owners will appreciate that. The compact dimensions of the car, light steering and a tight turning radius of 4.8 metres make it very easy to drive in the city. At higher speeds, the steering weighs up well. There's no nervous feeling or twitchiness at all while cruising on the highways. On twisty roads, you will find that it is quick and precise. That being said, it doesn't relay much feedback.
Just like in the Swift, steering has a stronger return to centre action than some of the Maruti cars we have driven. It's a big improvement over the outgoing car.

Braking
The Dzire is equipped with disc brakes at the front and drum brakes at the rear. The performance is as expected and the car comes to a halt without much drama. Under hard braking too, the car doesn't lose its composure.
The pedal feel is good too and there is a little bit of travel before the brakes bite.

Niggles & Problems
The Dzire is likely to be trouble-free like most offerings from Maruti. Our test car didn't have any mechanical or electronic issues. However, the front passenger seat in our test car was creaking and the driver door required some effort to shut.
As is always the case, we strongly recommend extended warranty coverage.

Maruti Dzire Exterior Images
Front is dominated by a large, black grille that is flanked on both sides by LED headlamps. Many people opine that the styling is similar to some Audis.
Rear features new LED tail-lamps and a new boot lid design with a prominent lip spoiler on the top. Number plate housing continues to be located in the centre, with a prominent chrome bar running above it. Towing point and exhaust are clearly visible.
On the sides, there are a few more character lines than the outgoing model. Overhangs are short. The rear bumper doesn't stick out at all. Any hit will be taken by the body. The use of chrome is restricted to a thin strip on the lower edge of the windows.
IMO, the new Dzire looks more contemporary than the previous-gen cars. Maruti has also moved it far away from the Swift in terms of styling.
The fourth-gen Dzire measures 3,995 mm in length and 1,735 mm in width and has a wheelbase of 2,450 mm. These figures are identical to the outgoing model. On the other hand, the height (1,525 mm) has been increased by 10 mm.
LED crystal vision headlamps get DRLs and integrated halogen turn indicators underneath. Notice the wide gap to the bonnet at the top.
Thick glossy black strip with an "S" badge connects the two headlamp clusters. A chrome insert on it is aligned with the DRLs. The wide black grille gets horizontal slats. Bumper houses fog lamps at the ends and gets a prominent crease at the bottom.
A 360-degree camera system has been provided. Front camera is located just below the badge.
Round LED fog lamps get C-shaped black housings.
Fibre sheet under the car at the front to improve airflow. Ground clearance = 163 mm.
Bonnet is smooth for the most part but has two prominent creases on the sides.
Body-coloured ORVMs get integrated turn indicators. ZXi+ variant gets auto-folding ORVMs. Side cameras (for the 360-degree display) are placed under the ORVMs.
Body-coloured door handles with black request sensors on both front units. Keyhole is only on the driver's side.
ZXi+ variant comes with smart-looking 15-inch precision cut two-tone alloy wheels shod with 185/65 section tyres. Like others in the segment, the Dzire gets disc brakes at the front and drum brakes at the rear.
Partial plastic cladding in the front wheel arches, while the rear is fuller.
Cabin area is similar if not identical to the previous-gen car. A-pillar is body-coloured, while B-pillar is blackened and a chrome strip runs on the lower edge of the windows. Subtle crease runs on the lower portion of the doors.
ZXi+ gets a sunroof. Maruti claims it's a segment-first feature.
Shark fin antenna sits at the rear.
Rear defogger is standard on all variants. The stop lamp is carried over from the outgoing model.
Boot gets a lip spoiler. A thick chrome bar runs above the number plate housing connecting the two tail-lamp clusters. A large "S" badge sits above it in the middle, while the model badge is located on the left. There is no badge depicting the variant anywhere on the car.
3D Trinity tail lamps look snazzy. They feature LED pilot lamps and stop lamps with halogen turn indicators and reversing lamps. Rear fog lamps have not been provided.
While most panel gaps are uniform, some, particularly around the boot lid are very wide. Overall, we felt that the shut lines all over the car could have been tighter.
Reversing camera is properly integrated and sits above the number plate.
Rear bumper has sharp cuts and creases on the lower portion. It houses four parking sensors. Towing point and exhaust pipe are located on the right.
This Alluring Blue shade is among the three new colours offered on the Dzire along with the Gallant Red (our test car) and Nutmeg Brown.

Maruti Dzire Interior Images
Dashboard has a pleasant design. It is well put together and nicely finished with no harsh or rough edges, though the quality of plastics is not of Hyundai's level.
Driving position is user-friendly and the large windshield offers a clean view of the road ahead. Dash isn’t high – always a good thing for frontward visibility.
Typical Maruti leather-wrapped, flat-bottom steering with thumb contours and a silver insert on the lower section. It is excellent to hold and gets tilt adjustment.
Audio and infotainment-related controls are located on the left spoke, while the right spoke holds switches for the cruise control system.
Telephony and voice command controls are placed behind the wheel.
Easy-to-read instrument cluster consists of a tachometer and speedometer with an MID in the middle. Analogue fuel and temperature gauges have been provided.
Ugly stalks to adjust the trip meter and scroll through the MID stick out of the instrument cluster on the left and right. Should have just had buttons for these functions.
MID displays plenty of information like torque and power readings, accelerator and brake pattern and G force meter. You also get the usual driving information like average fuel economy, range, driving time, clock etc.
You can also just have a blank display if you so wish. The door open indicator displays if the bonnet or boot lid is open too. The parking sensor display comes up as soon as the reverse gear is engaged.
MID also features turn-by-turn navigation and a gear shift indicator in the bottom left corner.
Chunky wiper and light stalks. Turn indicators have a 'lane change' feature, which makes them flash thrice when the stalk is tapped lightly. While automatic headlamps have been provided, automatic wipers have been left out of the feature list.
Standard chrome-ringed engine start button from the Maruti parts bin is located on the right of the steering wheel. Switches for the traction control and 360-degree camera sit next to it.
Idling start/stop switch and headlight leveller below. Notice the sheer number of dummy switches in the console.
Side air-con vents get slim chrome inserts on the direction controllers. Air flow volume can be adjusted or shut.
Bonnet and fuel flap release levers are located below.
Like the dashboard, the doorpads get a beige & black colour theme with a silver insert. Tweeters and speakers are housed on the front doors.
Detailing is identical to the dashboard and door handles are finished in chrome. Armrests are padded and covered in fabric at the place where you rest your elbow. Standard Maruti power widow console is an eyesore and doesn’t feel nice to use either – very utilitarian in design & feel. Door pockets are not particularly wide and can hold a 1-litre bottle and other small items.
Door sills aren't wide, which means less effort is needed to move your feet in & out of the car. No scuff plates provided.
Recommended air pressure for both tyre sizes is 29 PSI.
Front seats are wonderfully shaped and provide good support. Side bolstering is healthy and there is sufficient padding. Seats are slightly towards the softer side but spending long hours in them shouldn't be a problem. They are wide enough for most occupants. Headrests are very tall and their cushioning is on the firmer side. Seatbelts are not height-adjustable. However, they are placed at a comfortable height and will suit most occupants. No centre armrest provided.
Manual 6-way adjustment for the driver’s seat, but you don't get lumbar adjustment. Only 4-way adjustment for the passenger's seat.
A close look at the upholstery pattern. The quality of this fabric is satisfactory.
While the A, B & C pedals are well positioned, the clutch is placed too close to the dead pedal.
ORVMs are adequately sized and offer a good view of the action behind.
IRVM is wide enough to cover the entire rear windshield, but the thick C-pillars and small rear windshield restrict visibility.
Disappointingly, the IRVM doesn't get auto-dimming functionality. Just a regular day/night flick switch has been provided.
Centre fascia is tilted toward the driver. Piano black panelling has been used around the infotainment system and A/C console.
The touchscreen is very smooth to use and doesn't lag when you are going through its functions. It is one of the nicer units in the segment and comes with wireless Android Auto and Apple CarPlay connectivity.
Sound settings include the usual equaliser settings and fader / balance adjustments. For a car in this segment, the sound quality is satisfactory. With the Arkamys tuned sound system, there are 3 surround sense presets - Natural, Acoustic and Dynamic.
Navigation is through Google Maps via Android Auto. You can opt for a split screen if you prefer.
System and vehicle settings can be adjusted through the head unit. Multiple alerts are flashed on the touchscreen. A guide to the voice commands is provided and there is a proper TPMS too.
Vehicle details such as instantaneous and average fuel economy, driving pattern, etc. are displayed on the touchscreen.
Touchscreen doubles up as a display for the 360-degree camera. The display is clear and the view can be changed according to the driver's preference. Adaptive guidelines have been provided.
Multiple settings of the camera display can be adjusted.
Slim black A/C vents get silver and chrome inserts which add a bit of contrast.
A/C controls have been placed below with a small readout. Physical buttons are so much easier to operate than touch-sensitive units while driving. These buttons are of good quality and operate with a nice click.
12V power outlet and USB port are located below the climate control system on the centre fascia. Both get covers. A wireless smartphone charger is provided at the base of the centre fascia.
Gear lever looks sexy with a glossy black insert on the top and letters etched on it. It is soft and very good to hold. Throws are short and slick. Don't miss the leather boot and silver border around the console.
Center console gets a pair of cupholders. Nope, that's not rubber lining on the base.
Bird's eye view of the handbrake console. Shallow area below the handbrake can hold a small-sized smartphone. Sadly, no centre armrest for the driver. A wrong omission by Maruti.
Passenger side of the dash sports the same detailing as the doorpad and silver and faux wood inserts.
Glovebox is fairly sized, but it does not get cooling or illumination. It doesn't even get compartments.
Ambient lighting has been provided in the driver and passenger footwells.
Roof bezel includes two map lights and sunroof controls. The cluster also houses the Bluetooth mic.
We felt that the sunroof was on the smaller side. Nevertheless, it lets in a lot of light into the cabin.
Sunvisors are economy-grade in design & feel. Passenger-side sunvisor gets a vanity mirror, but there's no cover or light provided, while the driver-side unit merely gets a flap to hold tickets.
Keyfob is shared with other Maruti cars.
Spring-loaded grab handle has been provided above the passenger door.
All variants are equipped with 6 airbags including front, side and curtain airbags.
Like the front, the rear doorpads have a beige & black colour theme. The silver insert and fabric insert on the armrest (seen at the front) are missing here.
Door pockets can hold a 1-litre bottle and other small items.
There is adequate legroom in the rear. The floor hump is prominent and the centre console takes up space.
Front seatbacks are soft and scooped out to liberate more knee room.
Roofliner is scooped out to liberate more headroom for the rear seat passengers.
Rear bench has sufficient cushioning but is set low. This means that you sit down in it. Medium-sized folk will be fine, but taller occupants will find the under-thigh support lacking. The headroom is sufficient for even taller occupants. The seatback angle is nice and relaxed.
Rear seat can accommodate 2 adults and a child. It comes with 3-point seatbelts for all occupants but only 2 headrests. The seatbase is raised in the middle where the third passenger sits. This means he has lesser headroom than the side occupants.
ISOFIX child seat anchors have been provided on both sides.
The rear center armrest is wide, soft & comfortable to use. It comes with two useable cupholders.
Only the front passenger seat has a seatback pocket. It is not deep, yet adequately wide.
Reading lamps and spring-loaded grab handles have been provided above each passenger door. No coat hooks though.
Type A and Type C fast charging USB ports have been provided for rear passengers to charge their smartphones.
Narrow storage space above the rear air-con console is perfect for placing your phone.
Rear A/C vents get individual flow direction controllers but a common air volume controller.
Blank slot at the bottom of the console. Maruti could have provided a 12V power outlet here.
Boot space has gone up marginally from 378L to 382L. However, the opening is not very wide and the loading lip is high as well.
While luggage space has increased, the boot is still not as large as the Amaze (420L), Aura (402) and Tigor (419L). The rear seat does not fold down.
The boot gets a lamp, though the underside doesn't look pleasant at all. There is no proper paint coating and bolts jutting out from the top may damage soft bags. The exposed bolts and mechanism are such an eyesore.
Spare wheel is a 14-inch steel unit with a 165/80 section tyre and a speed limit of 80 km/h. Maruti should've given a full-size spare in the top variant. Since the spare is the same size as the standard wheels of the lower variants, this speed limit doesn't apply to the L & V trims.
Our test car did not have any tools. The jack is stored here.
Boot lid is thin and very light - feels flimsy. It does not get any cladding on the inside and the large gaping holes make it look awful.