Mercedes-AMG EQS 53 4matic+ Review
The Mercedes-AMG EQS 53 4matic+ is on sale in India at a price of Rs. 2.45 crore (ex-showroom).

Mercedes-AMG EQS 53 4matic+ Pros
Futuristic-looking design. Looks quite sporty too in the AMG spec
Decimating performance! Blistering 0-100 km/h time of 3.4 seconds
586 km claimed range goes beyond any anxiety levels
Unflappable handling and body control
Surprisingly very easy to drive and manoeuvre
Zero tailpipe emissions & green image will appeal to the environmentally-conscious

Mercedes-AMG EQS 53 4matic+ Cons
Not suited to urban commutes or poorly surfaced roads - Lumpy ride at low speeds and poor ground clearance. Regular S-Class rides better
Feels a bit aloof as a driver's car and maybe a bit too hard-edged for Indian roads
Some ergonomic misses (adjustable lumbar support, squab and bolsters)
For Rs 2.45 crore, you don't get the luxury pack for the rear, the Augmented Reality Head-up display and some other comfort features
Hyperscreen lacks initial intuitiveness, Volvo & BMW do it better
Long “full tank” charging times in comparison with an ICE car. Overnight charging is best

Introduction
The car that you see here, the AMG EQS 53 is Mercedes Benz's flagship electric sedan in India. There's no Maybach variant currently, but there will be a locally assembled EQS 580 positioned below the AMG variant soon. Moderator vb-san recently drove the EQS 580 in Stuttgart, Germany (Click here to read the excellent quick review). Like the EQS 580 4Matic - the AMG EQS 53 also packs two electric motors – one on each axle. Together they produce a mind-boggling 751 BHP and 1,020 Nm. The motors are powered by a 107.8 kWh battery pack that is said to offer a range of up to 586 km on a single charge. The AMG variant differs from a normal EQS in its handling characteristics. The cooling system has also been upgraded to match the motor's higher power output. This gives us a 0-100km/h acceleration timing of 3.4 seconds as opposed to the EQS 580's time of 4.3 seconds.
The EQS 53 comes with an exclusive AMG Dynamic Plus package as standard which includes the AMG performance sound and RACE START mode with boost function. The top speed of the EQS 53 with the AMG Dynamic Plus package is higher at 250km/h instead of 210km/h. I guess you still need fossil fuel to break the sound barrier. Reaching a higher top speed has more to do with the cooling ability of batteries at high speeds as well as the range. In India, we get the Night Edition of the EQS 53. There is a Touring edition available abroad with 22" wheels, a heated steering wheel and silver brake callipers. Not really missed out here.
The EQS is built on Mercedes Benz's first specific electric vehicle platform called the EVA (Electric Vehicle Architecture) which also sires the EQE. All other electric Mercedes models EQA, EQB, and EQC are built on the existing platforms that also underpin the IC-engined cars. What characterises the design of this platform is the more "Globular" styling as well as shorter overhangs. Although it looked revolutionary when presented both in concept for 2019 and on release in 2020, I felt a bit underwhelmed went I saw the EQS in the metal last month. Dark glossy colours and some wheel trim combinations do not bring the best out of its form. Our test car came in Designo Selenite Grey which could cost an extra Rs 5 lakhs. When EQS drew up outside my hotel with fellow Mod Aditya, the near matt finish, the lower stance and the wheel combo were WOW. Even my hotel staff were gaping. I'm sure my erstwhile neighbours Saif and Bebo must have been twitching their curtains.

Exterior
The traditional electric "snout" is replaced by the Panamericana grille. This makes the front grill look flatter. This is an AMG-specific black panel grille with hot-stamped vertical struts in chrome. I'm not a chrome fan, but the subtle lashings do help accentuate the lines.
The rear "Kamm-back" end is a little flat. The now traditional hallmark of the Mercedes electric range is the continuous rear light band. What distinguishes the AMG from the ordinary EQS are the more muscular haunches and the spoiler lip too. The chrome strakes below the bumper provide some relief and make the rear view look slimmer. (Note - this is probably the most expensive car so far to bear our sticker!).
The short overhangs belie its length. The lower stance and wheel combination makes it look less bulbous than the standard EQS. Yes, at first glance, it looks like a big bloated Superb with the rear hatch. Totally different in that stratospheric segment.
So, it has the "S" moniker but is it as big as an S-Class in reality? Comparing the dimensions of the W223 S-Class and the EQS, the latter is 24 mm shorter (length - 5,265 mm), 29 mm narrower (width - 1,925 mm) and 9 mm taller (height - 1,512 mm). The wheelbase of EQS at 3,210 mm is 6 mm shorter than the W223. So, is it merely an electric S class or something else? Read on!
Shod with Michelin Pilot Sport 275/40 21" EV specific tyres mounted on the cross-spoke wheels. These are NOT run-flat and no spare wheel was provided. Highly recommended that you keep a couple of tyres in your personal stock. Ceramic brakes are included! All EQS come with 4-wheel steering which turns by 9 degrees giving a turning circle of around 10.1 meters.
Note that the rear vent is a dummy. This is unique to the AMG EQS 53.
A glimpse of the multi-beam headlight unit that uses Mercedes's Digital Light Technology. It consists of a light module with three extremely powerful LEDs in each headlamp, whose light is refracted and directed by 1.3 million micro-mirrors. The resolution is therefore more than 2.6 million pixels per vehicle. The new headlamp in the EQS can be recognized by its concave lens and the blue illuminated Mercedes-Benz lettering.
A lower frontal perspective. The squat stance does compromise ground clearance. The suspension can be raised by 25mm. The front camera is located within the lower segment of the star. The only mechanicals visible are the radiators.
No excitement within the underbelly, totally clean except for forthcoming speedhump scrapes.
Nice big door-mounted mirrors provide excellent visibility. Cameras are mounted within.
The EQS and 4Matic Monikers - first time for Mercedes to actually add this on the side instead of just the boot lid.
Under the Hood view!!! That's all you will get. The bonnet can only be opened/removed (through a hidden undisclosed lever) under service conditions. The only thing that the owner needs to do is top up the wiper fluid. Down the hatch! However, a lot of surface muck will also enter the reservoir. The flap can be opened only when the car is unlocked.
Door Handles are recessed (XUV700 style!). They emerge if you approach with the key or if the car is unlocked. Additionally, when you unlock or lock the EQS, it makes a most satisfactory bass rumble. One might be able to configure this with other options.
Charging port placed on the rear flank - opens like a normal fuel cap.
Panoramic Roof, it slides up and over.
Passat style reversing camera.

Interior
Our car came with Nappa black leather along with AMG Carbon Fibre Trim - a real fingerprint magnet. You also get Black Leather and Brown or Grey Leather and Brown Interiors. There is the option for Anthracite linestructure Limewood which might be less sporty but more presentable. Tesla created a storm with the Portrait LED screen and Mercedes provided something similar in the S Class but in the EQS, it needed to leap ahead and that's where the Hyperscreen comes in to create some visual drama. It is standard in the AMG EQS 53.
Much has been hyped about the Hyperscreen. It is merely 2 OLED screens along with the driver's LED Binnacle. This is cleverly integrated to look like a single unit hence a lot of visual drama. Surrounding the massive screen is a silver front frame. The lower part is highlighted with ambient lighting to give the impression that the whole display is floating.
Behind the screen, one will find eight CPU cores, 24 gigabytes of RAM and 46.4 gigabytes per second of RAM bandwidth. The purpose is to power the artificial intelligence requirements. The EQS will learn about your habits, identify who you are and suggest things like - a comfortable route, when to raise the car on a bad road section, whom to call at a particular time of day, and suggest a particular drive mode and charging habits. It will flash a virtual tile with a suggestion and you decide. Our time with the car was too short to see this in action. To get the most out of this, one needs to set up the system using facial, fingerprint and voice recognition along with the Mercedes Me app. Click on the "All Setting" and one can set up everything from the safety, comfort (not available on the AMG), drive modes etc.
The Hyperscreen will make a great talking point but at the end of the day, the AI component and the charging options excepted, the interface is almost like the "standard" S-Class W223. When the plain vanilla EQS is launched, prospective owners would do well to spend time with the screen to understand if the extra outlay is worth it. One factor to note is that without the HyperScreen, the remaining dashboard surface will be mainly hard plastics which might not be very impressive looking as I experienced in the EQE. To discuss this in depth requires an article in itself. It also requires a good couple of hours to get oriented.
The steering is similar to the S-Class and is busy and fiddly. This comprises four spindly spokes and within these spokes are 4 sets of controls.
Upper Right Spoke - This handles the instrumentation functions. You can select via the touchpad amongst other instrument styles. The Classic works best. Central information displays navigation, vehicle data, travel info, heads-up display options (the menu came up but setting it up was fiddly), and vehicle status (mainly temperatures of the motors and radiators)
Lower Right Spoke - Handles the cruise control and active safety functions
Top Left Spoke - Controls main central screen views and options
Lower Left Spoke - All basic audio functions
The two smaller circular controls towards the bottom of the wheel are a bit like Ferrari's Manettino system. The right one controls the drive modes  - 'C' stands for 'Comfort' mode and the other contains two toggle switches to switch off traction control and the other switch to toggle through the piped engine noise. Behind the wheel are a couple of paddles to adjust the power recuperation.
The heads-up display is supposed to be adjustable from the steering wheel but it was so fiddly and we couldn't activate it at first. I muttered, "Hey Mercedes, switch on the heads-up display" and hey presto! It came on. We did not get to explore how to configure the unit. The display you see gets a little confusing as you see the speed and the power consumption rate both increasing/decreasing at the same time. It was amusing to see the power generation happening as one slowed down and braked.
The main instrument binnacle can be configured to various styles, this is the 'Classic' face. Most comprehensive of the lot.
The handbrake and lighting switch are placed below. The dashboard angle makes it a little fiddly to set and access intuitively. The light switch has very little haptic feed. In my Audi, one can feel the various steps, i.e. it is a proper switch, not an electronic selector. I guess Mercedes prefer that you leave it on automatic. The handbrake is meant for a long stop. I missed the ability to quickly activate the handbrake at traffic lights. I tried using this and I think there have been a few cuss words in Navi Mumbai when I found it a challenge to release and held up traffic (Mercedes expects you to toggle between Park and Drive!).
The frameless driver's door contains seat controls. It contains seat heating & ventilation controls and one can also control the passenger seat.
Love the technical attention to detail, the tweeter is angled towards the A-pillar window and the grill serves as a classy embellishment.
Passenger door at night illuminated with one of 64 shades!
Pedals are a work of art.
The steering lowers into place once you close the door. Seating is low and one feels cocooned in. This, plus the high waistline might find this a challenge with the claustrophobic folks. The front seats have limited adjustment. They are snug but the lack of lumbar support meant that I had a slight backache after a couple of hours. The steering wheel was set a little high. I would need some extensive trial and error to get to my position but adjustable lumbar support, squab and bolsters are missed.
The central screen contains various menus including navigation, drive mode settings and settings for the MBUX entertainment system. This controls the impressive Burmester® lettering. The Burmester® surround sound system comprises 15 powerful speakers. The two subwoofers are integrated into the body shell in the bulkhead on the driver and front passenger side. Two sound presets allow for different listening enjoyment. It also enables seamless operation of streaming services such as Spotify, Amazon Music, TuneIn or TIDAL via the central display, the steering wheel or the "Hey Mercedes" voice assistant.
Some of the active safety settings don't seem to be present and nor are the Comfort Settings - read massaging seats, lumbar control etc. A bit of trivia. The snow chain mode will turn off the four-wheel steering.
Content can be shared between the central and passenger screens. The passenger screen by default displayed a compass but if someone is sitting in the passenger seat, it can show navigation, audio, and charging functions among others. A great advancement for backseat drivers. You can set the time, charging speed, duration and top capacity limit.
Below the large screen is a large console which contains cupholders, and 2 USB ports. There is an additional small shelf below this. The shortcut menu is on the centre console. Consists of the camera activation, the charging, car settings, the Start/Stop button (size was so unassuming, it took me a while to find it!), the fingerprint sensor and essential audio controls. Note the grime accumulated below the switches.
The glove box is minimal, i.e. best for storing the manual. However, there is plenty of oddment space elsewhere
Here's a look at the overhead console. Sliding the touch control, retracts the blinds and press the control hard to open the roof. It took a while to figure this out.
The panoramic sunroof lets in plenty of light in the cabin.
The sloping roofline does not impede access.
The rear bench is wide and the angle is a little upright. Two people can sit in comfort and the third is okay for short journeys.
There are no adjustments available as the 'Rear Seat Package' is not available in AMG models except for seat warming. The seats are a little flat and short on squab. This might be S-Class in size but not in the rear seat experience.
The boot is well shaped with 610 litres of space but no provision for a spare wheel / space-saver. There is no frunk as the front panel is sealed. Despite being a luxury car, it is versatile in a way that the rear seat can fold down opening up to 1,750 litres of space.
Shallow underfloor tray to store the charging cables.

Driving the Mercedes-AMG EQS 53 4MATIC+
The AMG EQS 53 4Matic+ has two permanently excited synchronous motors. With the AMG DYNAMIC PLUS package, which is available as a standard, the maximum output of the car is up to 752 BHP in RACE START mode with a boost function. In this case, the EQS can accelerate from 0-100 km/h in 3.4 seconds with a battery charge level of at least 75 % and can achieve a top speed of 250 km/h.
Our brief stint with the EQS was between Bandra, Navi Mumbai and Lonavala. I was the passenger between Bandra and Navi Mumbai. The initial impression was amazing as one stepped into a space-age dashboard. However, the space age ambitions were thwarted by the lunar surfaces. We had to be extremely careful as the combination of low ground clearance and long wheelbase meant a propensity to scrape.
The other thing that was apparent was that you could feel every bump on the road surface. It was absorbent and far from trashy but you felt every bump/pothole. With 40 profile tyres and later rediscovered, no spare, we proceeded with caution. After passing through BKC, I took over. Having driven various Mercedes Benz cars last month (related thread), everything seemed familiar. The main issue was the relatively high window line that took a while to get used to (coming from an Audi Q3).
As we picked up speed on poorly surfaced concrete highways, we were conscious of the road noise. Suddenly we started getting a regularly intermittent noise from the wheels. No warnings whatsoever. I was dreading a "Game Over" before things even began! We stopped and couldn't find anything. It looked like a stone must have been caught in the tread and later disappeared.
I spent the initial time driving moderately and getting a feel of the car. The brakes were effective and easy to modulate but lacked bite. Rather they do bite but like a mosquito, you don't feel it but only feel the resultant effect. It was very easy to place the car although getting used to the high-set steering took some time. The road opened up and it was time to mash the pedal to get a feel. Far from feel, it was neck snapping! It can catch you by surprise. This is no ordinary machine where the noise or progressive feel tells you what is about to happen. This is a potential weapon in the wrong hands. We felt the brunt of the driver assist when one bike swerved in front of us. You need those seat belts!
You can choose from four AMG DYNAMIC SELECT driving modes "Comfort", "Sport", "Sport+" and "Individual". We started in Comfort mode, in this mode one motor manages the propulsion and the second motor provides supplemental power/torque distribution. It is all seamless, you get no torque steer, rear breakaway, nothing. While heading out on Palm Beach road, we decided to test the acceleration up to 80km/h. Lights turn green, mash the pedal and you are at 80km/h before you know it. The traffic behind you is mere dots. This felt like a laser lance - no noise, no drama but silently effective. With various speed traps lurking, we needed to be careful. Fortunately, this was on Ganesh Puja, so Mumbai's finest were on holiday!
We reached the old Pune highway and the road surfaces improved and then the EQS had its moment. Except for moderate road noise, it was refined, and the steering was accurate and well-weighted although devoid of feel. It just ate the corners, no drama nothing. Of course, we did need to slow down for speed breakers through villages. We did have a moment when someone underestimated our speed and ran across the road. The brakes wiped off the speed very progressively.
Now that we had mentally mapped out the various perimeters, we then switched the drive mode to Sport. We used the central console as we had not gotten to grips with the steering controls. The throttle (wrong word but I have no other word!) became sharper, and the steering and suspension weighed significantly. The best part was the interior piped sound turned from silence to the guttural sound of an AMG V8 engine. Not as hard-edged but entertaining nonetheless. In this mode, the EQS was unassailable, on four-lane highways, this machine was a silent killer. One need not honk and wait for a driver to react, merely ensure you have a safe room to manoeuvre and go for it. It all happens within the overtaken driver's reaction time. We were killing it.
What happens in Sport and Sport Plus mode is that both motors are always providing on-edge throttle response. We moved to Sport Plus. The EQS becomes even more hard-edged and you really feel the road surface. My recommendation would be to waft in Comfort mode on urban and rough surfaces and switch to sport for the smooth highways and challenging curves. You can create an individual mode with different configurations.
We then approached the climb into Lonavala. We are now competing with buses and water tankers and i20s. The EQS remains calm, the torque allowing it to maintain the pace without any breadth. Various vehicles try overtaking incrementally. We just held back and maintained a view of what was happening in front. An opportunity opened up on an uphill stretch with clear visibility, and we went for it. The EQS chirped its tyres and decimated the queue. This was something else.
In summary, if Comfort mode was like watching TV and Sport mode was like playing a video game. There is a certain level of detachment as one decimates traffic that makes you wonder whether you are piloting a drone!
We then hit the Mumbai Pune highway to return. The surface was appalling but we had gotten used to the EQS. The EQS has a four-link axle at the front and a multi-link axle at the rear. The suspension is an air suspension system combined with adaptive, electronically controlled adjustable damping. On downward sweeping stretches, the EQS cornered as if on rails. No kicking steering, nothing, some body movement but not much else. We had to consciously watch our speeds. Midrange acceleration was brutal. With equalised torque sensing, the tyres merely chirp and the EQS surges ahead.
Braking from speed is effective but the lack of feel and bite removes the drama. There are three levels of energy recuperation. The first is mild. The middle one is moderate and recommended. The most extreme one is a little neck-snapping, a bit like a jerky driver. This is best for in-town single pedal use although the driver would need the practice to modulate this smoothly.
Around town, the EQS was a doddle to drive in tight spaces. Despite its length, the 4-wheel steering (9 degrees - 4.5 degrees in lesser versions) aids immensely. It also made the car much more agile at speed during lane changes. Parking is easy as the cameras are very clear and effective.
When we received the car, the battery was 95% and the range was 535 km. The high-voltage battery has a usable energy content of 107.8 kWh. After a quick (understatement!) trip to Lonavala with plenty of dynamic testing, there was still around 220km range left. This is pretty impressive and matches the mile-munching ability of this car. One can do reasonable distances within its range and extraordinary distances with a fast charger en route! Mercedes-Benz is also planning on creating a fast-charging network across the country with 60 kW super-fast DC chargers and 180 kW ultra-fast DC chargers, so that's something to look forward to.
Although a bit aloof as a driver's car, the EQS is a little hard-edged in AMG spec for most Indian roads, it is quite practical. However, give me an M3 or AMG GT for the weekend, please! If this was a proper S Class, this is the nearest thing to an on-land executive jet.