Mercedes-Benz EQE SUV Review

Mercedes-Benz EQE SUV Pros
Futuristic-looking design and styling coupled with solid CBU build quality
Whopping 402 BHP and 858 Nm (!!) from the twin motors. 0-100 km/h in just 4.9 seconds
Real world range of 450 – 500 km should take care of range anxiety. Adjustable regeneration helps maximise range too
Merc’s 4MATIC all-wheel drive system coupled with wide tyres provides excellent grip
Interior ambience makes you feel like you’ve stepped into something special. Lovely quality of materials and attention to detail
Loaded with features such as heated / ventilated front seats with massage function, massive hyperscreen setup with 3 displays, head-up display, 15-speaker Burmester sound system, impressive ambient lighting, connected car features, transparent bonnet, and more
Top-notch safety kit includes 9 airbags, a laundry list of safety aids, and driver assistance features like adaptive cruise control, attention assist etc.
Zero emissions, cheap running costs & green image will appeal to a lot of people

Mercedes-Benz EQE SUV Cons
CBU pricing makes it the priciest car in its segment. On-road price crosses Rs. 1.45 crores
Neutral handling characteristics won’t excite enthusiasts. It’s fast, but not sporty
Low ride height for an SUV, even with the 1-inch lift from the air suspension
Touch-type controls can take time to get used to. Physical buttons are gone! Even ORVM adjustment is touch-based & non-user-friendly
Some ergonomic issues like the A-pillar blind spot, poor rearward visibility and placement of the buttons on the centre console
Missing features like rear-wheel steering, rear sunshade, grab handles for rear passengers, full-size spare tyre (has a space saver tyre), etc.
Spare tyre is placed above the boot floor and eats into luggage space. Doesn't get a frunk either
Back seat is more suitable for 2 healthy adults and a child. Not 3 healthy adults

Introduction
It was back in 2020 when Mercedes introduced its EQ sub-brand in India. The first product of the brand was the EQC SUV which was followed by the EQS Limousine and the EQB SUV. However, earlier this year, Mercedes decided to discontinue its first EV, the EQC and introduce the larger EQE SUV in India that you see here. And unlike the EQC which was based on a modified GLC platform, the EQE is based on the Mercedes-Benz Electric Vehicle Architecture (EVA). The platform also underpins the EQS Limousine which is locally assembled at the Mercedes-Benz plant in Chakan. However, as of now, the EQE SUV isn’t being assembled locally. Instead, it’s being directly imported. It is unclear whether Mercedes will start the local assembly of this new EV. Meanwhile, we got to drive the car in Gulmarg, Kashmir and there’s a lot to talk about, so let’s get right to it.

Mercedes-Benz EQE SUV Price & Brochure
Internationally, Mercedes offers the EQE SUV with multiple powertrain options. There’s the EQE 350, EQE 350 4MATIC, and EQE 500 4MATIC and you also have the AMG models namely the EQE 43 4MATIC and the EQE 53 4MATIC+. For the Indian market, Mercedes has decided to bring just the EQE 500 4MATIC and launched it at a price of Rs. 1.39 crore (ex-showroom).
Competition in the luxury electric SUV segment has intensified. The Mercedes EQE SUV's main rivals include the BMW iX, Audi Q8 e-tron and Jaguar I-Pace. Compare the prices and the Mercedes EQE SUV is the costliest in the segment. Moreover, compared to the diesel-powered GLE 400d, the EQE is more expensive by ~ Rs. 11 lakh.

Running Costs
The EQE SUV has a 90.56 kWh battery pack which translates to ~91 units of electricity for a full charge. The per unit cost of electricity depends on the slab that you are in & your location, but on average, it’s about Rs. 8 per unit. This translates to ~Rs. 728 to charge to 100%. Mercedes claims a range of 465-550 km (WLTP). While we were not able to perform a range test, you should be able to get a realistic driving range of ~450-500 km. Thus, you can expect an approximate running cost of Rs. 1.62 per km.
While on the road, charging at a typical 30 kW DC fast charger costs anywhere from Rs. 22 - 26 per unit. Considering a figure of Rs. 25 per unit would mean that a full charge would cost you about Rs. 2,275. This would shoot up the running cost to Rs. 5.1 per km.

Exterior
Design & Styling
While this is a very subjective topic, if you’ve liked the direction Mercedes has taken with the EQ range of cars, you will probably like the EQE SUV as well. It’s got a very aerodynamic design language with smooth curves all over and all the elements like the headlamps, tail-lamps, roofline, window line, etc. blend nicely with the overall design of the car. So, all in all, it looks neatly packed and well-proportioned. A contrary line of thought is that it looks very similar to the other EQ-series cars and is a very conservative design that doesn’t really stand out in a crowd and while it may have an ‘SUV’ in its name, it looks more like a crossover than an SUV.
The EQE SUV measures 4,863 mm in length, 2,141 mm in width, 1,685 mm in height with a wheelbase of 3,030 mm. Compared to the competition, it is very much on par in terms of size and has the longest wheelbase in the segment. There are a total of 9 colour options to choose from - Obsidian Black, Sodalite Blue, Emerald Green, Velvet Brown, High-Tech Silver, Selenite Grey, Polar White, MANUFAKTUR Diamond White Bright and MANUFAKTUR Alpine Gray Solid (our test car).

Build Quality, Fit & Finish
As mentioned earlier, the EQE SUV is built on Mercedes' Electric Vehicle Architecture (EVA) which is shared with the EQS Limousine. The build quality is excellent and the car feels extremely well put together. There’s very little flex in the panels and the build feels very robust. Fit and finish are also excellent as you would expect of a Mercedes-Benz.

Wheels & Tyres
The EQE is equipped with 20-inch alloy wheels which have a 5-spoke design. Mercedes claims that the wheels have been aerodynamically optimised and have a high-sheen finish. They look very classy in person and are shod with 255/45 section tyres. Our test car was shod with Goodyear Eagle F1 Directional 5 Tyres. Considering that the EQE sends power to all wheels and delivers 858 Nm of torque, the tyres provide very good grip. Even on wet roads, the grip levels were good, and the car never felt nervous.

Ground Clearance
Since the Mercedes EQE SUV is a CBU, the unladen ground clearance hasn’t been revealed. It does get AIRMATIC air suspension which can raise the ride height by 25 mm or roughly an inch to help you get over some rough roads. While the ground clearance of roughly 150-170 mm is just about enough to tackle Indian road conditions, you wouldn’t want to take this Rs. 1.4 crore SUV off-road. Better stick to on-road driving with this one.

Standard & Extended Warranty
Like all Mercedes-Benz cars, the standard warranty on the EQE SUV is 3 years. It can be extended to 6 years and we would strongly recommend you do that. The battery comes with a 10-year or 2,50,000 km warranty.

Maintenance
Mercedes offers "Star Ease" maintenance packages for up to 10 years. You have the option of choosing from a Compact package or a Compact Plus. The Compact package covers all the major and minor periodic maintenance services as per the defined interval. The Compact Plus package offers all the benefits of the Compact Package and also provides replacement of brake discs and brake pads, both front and rear, wheel alignment, and balancing and replacement of wiper blades.
You also get 3 years of on-road assistance service which can be extended to 8 years at an additional cost. Mercedes genuine parts come with a warranty of up to 2 years which would ensure peace of mind. Furthermore, to ensure that parts are available everywhere, Mercedes has also started over-the-counter sales of spare parts.

Safety
The EQE SUV comes with a host of safety features which include window airbags, side airbags for the rear passengers and even a knee airbag for the driver. There’s also a Pre-Safe Impulse Side feature that moves the driver or passenger away from the door in case of a side-on collision to reduce the risk of injury. There’s also a Pre-Safe system that generates a noise from the speakers which can trigger a natural protective reflex. You also have driver assistance features like Adaptive Cruise Control, Attention Assist, Active Brake Assist, Active Lane Keeping Assist, Parking Package with reversing camera and Speed Limit Assist. There’s also acoustic ambient protection which is an artificially generated vehicle noise to alert pedestrians. Also, there are systems in place in case of a crash where the high-voltage system gets automatically switched off and disconnected from the battery. The EQE SUV has not been crash-tested yet, but the sedan version of the EQE has scored a 5-star safety rating at the Euro-NCAP and we expect a similar result for the SUV.

Interior
Cabin Design & Quality
Step inside the cabin and you will be greeted with a welcome chime played through the speakers. The ambience is very plush and quintessential Mercedes design with modern touches. There’s the massive Hyperscreen setup that runs across the dashboard. This setup includes a 12.3-inch driver display, a 17.7-inch OLED touchscreen infotainment head-unit in the middle and a 12.3-inch passenger-side touchscreen. All three screens are joined by a seamless glass cover giving the interior a very futuristic look. There are plenty of soft-touch elements and some wood inserts as well which make the cabin feel very upmarket. The overall quality of materials used is good. If we had to nitpick, the plastic air vents don’t give a premium feel. But all in all, most owners will be very satisfied with the interiors of the EQE SUV.

Space & Comfort
The EQE SUV has big doors and you should be careful while opening the front ones. Ajmat and I ended up banging the doors on our shins while opening them on a couple of occasions. Getting in and out of the car is a fairly easy affair. You don’t have to climb into the cabin. For shorter folk, there’s a side step in place as well to aid ingress & egress. Once inside, the cabin is wide enough and both front passengers are sat with a good distance between them.
Front passengers get comfy seats that have 4-way lumbar adjustment as well as extendable seat bases to provide better under-thigh thigh support. They have 3 memory settings and are heated and ventilated. There are massage functions as well for the front seats which work very well. The cushioning is on point and there’s a healthy amount of side bolstering to keep you in place.

Driving Position & Ergonomics
In the settings menu, there’s an option where you can let the car know your height and the system will adjust the seat and steering position to the optimum driving position. We tried this but found things to be a bit uncomfortable in the recommended position. You can always adjust the settings to your liking and there’s a lot of range for the electronic adjustments for the seat and steering wheel for you to find your perfect driving position. All other controls in the cabin are ergonomically placed and well laid out.

Cabin Storage
There’s plenty of storage space for the front passengers with accommodating door pockets that can easily hold a 1-litre bottle and some knick-knacks. There’s a storage space in the center console which has two cupholders, a wireless charging pad and a storage bin with a sliding cover. The centre armrest also has a deep storage box underneath. Additionally, there’s a stowage compartment below the centre console which is quite spacious. The glovebox is average-sized and can hold all the essentials. The front seatbacks have pockets for the rear passengers to use and the rear centre armrest has a mobile holder along with two cupholders.

Air-Conditioning
The Mercedes EQE SUV comes with a 4-zone climate control system which is super effective in maintaining cabin temperatures. It has a PM2.5 filter along with a HEPA fine particle filter and an inbuilt fragrance dispenser as well. Front passengers can also set the individual temperatures for rear passengers.

Features
Unique & Noteworthy Features
The feature list on the Mercedes EQE runs very long and you have all the necessary features that you can imagine. Some standout features include heated and ventilated front seats with massage functions and a head-up display. The 17.7-inch touchscreen comes with wireless Android Auto and Apple CarPlay connectivity and is mated to a 15-speaker 710W speaker system. It also gets onboard navigation and pre-installed music streaming services like Amazon Music, Apple Music, Spotify, Amazon Music, Tidal and TuneIn. You can set your profile for all the settings which can be accessed with the fingerprint sensor. You also get the whole set of connected car features like vehicle monitoring, geofencing, vehicle finder, etc. Further, the touchscreen works as a display for the transparent bonnet feature that gives a live video feed of the ground under the bonnet on which the car is being driven and a view of the exact tyre position. Other features include ambient lighting, wireless charging and projection of the brand logo on the ground from the ORVM.

Audio System & Sound Quality
With the EQE SUV, you get a 710-watt 15-speaker sound system which delivers an amazing sound experience. There are quite a few preset sound settings and you can further fine tune them as per your liking. The settings are then saved on your personal profile which can be accessed at any time.

Rear Passengers
Rear Seat Comfort & Space
Getting in and out of the rear seats is much easier as compared to the front seats. You get 3 adjustable headrests and 3-point seatbelts for all 3 passengers. While the cabin width is enough to seat 3 passengers, the seats are designed for 2 passengers to travel comfortably. The middle passenger has to sit on a slightly raised part of the seat and the backrest houses the centre armrest which makes things worse.
In terms of comfort, the rear passengers have adequate headroom and the knee room is also sufficient. The backrest is also set at a comfortable angle and you can recline it further. Like the front, the cushioning is spot on and provides good side support. The lack of under-thigh support will be an area of complaint for some tall passengers. Surprisingly, there are no roof-mounted grab handles for the rear passengers. The rear passengers get two cupholders, dual-zone climate control and two USB-C charging ports.

Boot Space
The Mercedes EQE SUV has a boot space of 520 litres. However, since the spare wheel is placed on the boot floor, the space is reduced considerably. The 60:40 split rear seats can be folded down to increase cargo space to 1,675 litres. There’s no frunk in the EQE SUV for additional storage space.

Driving the Mercedes-Benz EQE SUV
The Mercedes-Benz EQE SUV 500 4MATIC gets individual motors for each axle (front and rear). Their combined output is 402 BHP and a whopping 858 Nm. From a standstill, Mercedes claims that the car will do 0-100 km/h in 4.9 seconds and hit a limited top speed of 210 km/h.
You do get a start/stop button unlike some of the recent electric cars where you can just sit in the driver’s seat with the key in your pocket and drive off. Press the start button on the centre console with your foot on the brake pedal and you will get an indication on the MID that the car is ready to drive. Switch the gear selector to D and lift your foot off the brake pedal and you start moving smoothly in an eerie silence. With a light foot on the accelerator, the drive experience is extremely smooth and refined in the city. You can also choose to have one-pedal driving which is a boon in bumper-to-bumper traffic conditions. Frontal visibility is good, but the thick A-pillars create big blind spots on the sides. You have to be conscious of this while driving around in the city. The power available is way more than needed to amble around town. You can not only close gaps quickly but also overtake slow cars with ease.
Get on the highway and you can really stretch the legs of the EQE SUV. Floor the A-pedal and you are greeted by the instant acceleration that EVs are so famous for. Yes, you will instantly be pushed back in your seat, and you'll never get tired of this. On the narrow roads of Gulmarg, we found ourselves flooring the accelerator every time there was an empty stretch of road. Of course, the car feels very relaxed cruising at triple-digit speeds, and you can easily pass other cars on the highway by just flexing your right foot.
The Mercedes EQE SUV gets DYNAMIC SELECT programs or drive modes to choose from. You have Eco, Comfort, Sport, Individual, and Off-Road modes. The different programs alter characteristics of the power delivery, suspension, steering and traction control.
Eco Mode – This is the mode you will want to be in if you want to maximise range. There’s enough power on offer and while the delivery is a lot more linear, you can still keep up with the traffic and make quick overtakes as and when needed. The steering is the lightest in Eco mode.
Comfort – This is the default mode when you start the car and is a perfect balance between Eco and Sport modes. The throttle response is a little sharper as compared to the Eco mode and is great for 95% of driving conditions.
Sport – The mode when you want to have some fun. The acceleration in this mode is noticeably quicker and it’s like all the senses of the car are heightened. The AIRMATIC suspension lowers the body by 0.8 inches at high speeds when in this mode. Surprisingly, Mercedes has tuned the low-speed drive beautifully in the Sport mode and while the throttle response is sharp, it’s never jerky. You can drive around smoothly in Sport mode as well.
Individual – This is the mode where you can mix and match all the settings as per your liking.
Off-Road – While no one would want to take this Rs. 1.4 crore SUV off road, it is equipped with a few features that would help during the rare occasion. The car can be raised by 1 inch in off-road mode. The ESP in off-road mode can be activated and deactivated to limit or allow slip on wheels.

Regenerative Braking
The EQE SUV is equipped with paddle shifters which can be used to adjust the level of regeneration. There are three levels of regeneration – Zero, Medium and High. The regeneration at the medium level is comfortable for most driving conditions. High regeneration is when you want to extract maximum range, but it’s very strong and the drive experience gets jerky whenever you lift off the accelerator.

Noise, Vibration & Harshness (NVH)
As expected, the cabin of the EQE SUV is very quiet. Even when you floor the accelerator, the motor’s whirring is barely audible inside the cabin. Mercedes has done an excellent job of isolating the outside noise and you barely hear any road or wind noise while driving around. It’s only when you go above 100 km/h that you get a hint of wind noise.

Range
The Mercedes EQE SUV has a 90.56 kWh Lithium-ion battery pack that gives it a WLTP-certified range of 465 – 550 km. You can expect a realistic range of 450-500 km with normal driving. Given the rising demand for EVs, there are plenty of charging stations popping up everywhere, which ought to take care of range anxiety. Mercedes also has over 36 locations with fast charging options out of which 21 have 60 kW chargers and the remaining 15 have 180 kW chargers.

Charging
With the EQE SUV, Mercedes provides an 11 kW wall box charger that can charge the car from 10% to 100% in 9.5 hours. With a 100 kW DC fast charger, the battery can be charged from 10% to 80% in 32 minutes.
Suspension

Ride Comfort
The EQE SUV is equipped with AIRMATIC air suspension with an integrated adaptive damping system. The system can adjust all four wheels separately to provide a comfortable ride. The air suspension also lowers the ride height at higher speeds to lower the centre of gravity. Not only does this look great on paper, but even in real-world conditions, the suspension manages to offer a comfortable ride quality. At slow speeds, the suspension is quite absorbent even with the 20-inch wheels. Small to medium-sized potholes are handled nicely but you can feel the large potholes inside the cabin. There is a hint of underlying stiffness to the suspension system, but it’s never uncomfortable.

Handling & Dynamics
At highway speeds, the EQE remains planted and doesn’t feel floaty. Over the undulating roads in Gulmarg, the suspension felt a bit busy. Going over a sharp bump at high speed, the car settled down quickly without excessive vertical movement. Carry some speed into a corner and the EQE surprisingly holds its line well. There is a bit of body roll, but it’s well-controlled. You do however feel the bulk of the car when in corners which is something enthusiasts might not like. In contrast, the 4MATIC system provides excellent grip and keeps the car planted in corners. Even on wet roads, the 4MATIC system along with the Goodyear tyres manage to provide excellent grip and the car never felt nervous. All in all, while the EQE SUV is fast, it's not very sporty in terms of handling and has more neutral characteristics.

Steering
The electric power steering unit is very user-friendly and will be appreciated by most owners. It weighs up nicely and you can also change the driving modes to adjust it to your liking. It’s consistent in terms of feel and there’s no twitchiness at highway speeds. When on twisty roads, the steering feels direct, but the feedback is limited. Rear-wheel steering would completely transform the handling of the car.

Braking
Equipped with disc brakes all around, the EQE SUV’s braking is very sharp. The car stops without much drama from high speeds. The bite point is a little high which takes some time getting used to, but the pedal feel is consistent.

Mercedes-Benz EQE SUV Exterior Images
Big three-pointed star logo on the grille is eye-catching. The front looks very contemporary and similar to other cars in the EQ series.
Rear also follows the EQ family design cues with the connected tail-lamps.
The Mercedes EQE SUV has the longest wheelbase in its segment at 3,030 mm. In profile, the car looks more like a van than an SUV.
Rounded edges and smooth curves give the EQE SUV a very aerodynamic look.
Squatish stance at the rear. The EQE SUV doesn’t ride very high off the ground, so you will have to be careful over some rough roads.
Twin pod headlamp cluster has an LED DRL strip running on top which also doubles up as a turn-indicator.
The EQE is equipped with adaptive high beam assist which adapts to different driving conditions and also the topography.
Big Mercedes logo sits on a big closed grille that also has tri-star detailing. The air dam gets a thick chrome border which looks awful.
Classy ‘Mercedes’ logo at the base of the windshield.
Base of the A-pillar gets EQE badging. ORVMs get integrated turn-indicators and cameras for the 360-degree camera system are located underneath along with puddle lamps that project the Mercedes-Benz logo.
Since the bonnet is not supposed to be opened regularly, the windshield washer fluid can be topped up through this slot on the left fender.
Flush door handles pop out when you unlock the car.
They’re illuminated at night and have a classy ‘Mercedes-Benz’ embossing on the inside.
Sidestep is standard and is illuminated as well.
20-inch 5-spoke alloy wheels shod with 255/45 section tyres.
Equipped with air suspension, the ride height can be raised by 1 inch.
The standard CCS Type 2 charging port is on the right. The EQE takes over 9.5 hours to charge 10-100% with an 11 kW AC charger. A 100 kW DC fast charger can charge the car from 10-80% in 32 mins. Here’s an interesting trivia – See the QR code on the fuel lid? Scanning it will lead you to a link that tells you where to cut through the body safely in case of an accident.
Big panoramic sunroof lets in a lot of light inside the cabin.
Roofline extends into a spoiler which gets a chrome border.
A look at the sleek LED tail-lamp cluster in action.
Connected tail-lamps have become quite popular these days. The EQE 500 badge sits on the left while the 4MATIC badge sits on the right. Just like the front, you get a chrome skid plate that looks out of place. Also, note the fake air vents on the sides.
The Mercedes-Benz logo on the tailgate flips to reveal the reversing camera. You have to press the flap on the top to open the tailgate.

Mercedes-Benz EQE SUV Interior Images
Dashboard design of the EQE SUV is identical to the EQS sedan except for a few changes. You are greeted by the massive Hyperscreen setup and a seamless design theme. The Alpine Grey body colour gets this all-black interior.
Darker body colours get this Neva Gray interior theme.
While the view from the driver’s seat is tall and commanding, the thick A-pillar creates a big blind spot.
Steering wheel has been carried over from some of the newer Mercedes models that we’ve seen like the C-Class and the GLC. It comes with an array of touch-type switches. It gets electrical adjustment for height and reach and is lovely to hold.
Indicator, high beam and wiper controls on the left stalk and the transmission mode selector on the right.
Paddle shifters have been provided to select the level of regeneration. The normal level of recuperation works best for day-to-day driving.
Navigation details can be mirrored onto the head-up display.
12.3-inch instrument cluster is bright and has a crisp display. It’s highly customizable and displays a truckload of information.
You can choose from a variety of display options which can include a full navigation display. Different dynamic drive modes have different displays. You can even have off-road display with information regarding the steering angle degree and a compass. Vehicle-related information can also be accessed through the MID.
A look at the rotary AC vents. Also, notice the soft touch leather finish on the top of the dashboard.
Controls for the lights and parking brake are placed on the right of the steering wheel.
Doorpad carries the all-black theme with the top portion draped in brown leather upholstery. The driver-side doorpad houses the seat and window controls and even the boot release.
Ambient lighting strip is placed on the top part of the doorpad. Interestingly, the ambient lighting also acts as a cross-traffic warning light. So, if you are opening the door and there’s a vehicle approaching from behind, the ambient light will turn red and blink rapidly to warn you. Very thoughtful.
Front seats are comfortable and supportive with a host of electronic adjustments including under-thigh support. Headrests are adjustable too. Seats get heating, cooling and even massage functions.
Footwell is wide enough and dead pedal is huge! It is positioned perfectly and can even accommodate large-sized shoes.
ORVMs provide a good view of the action at the rear. Notice the blind-spot warning.
Thick C-pillars and the headrests restrict the view from the IRVM. You will have to rely on the 360-degree camera system while reversing.
17.7-inch touchscreen dominates the centre console.
Bottom portion of the touchscreen has fixed AC controls and various options can be viewed on the remaining portion of the screen. There’s onboard navigation with a 3D display, and some pre-installed apps and you can also set the car for a valet service or a beginner driver mode where the top speed is restricted. You can also maximise range by adjusting various functions like climate control or seat controls, etc. Basic charging and consumption details can also be viewed on the screen.
There are over 8 massage options available, and you can have individual options for the driver and the passenger. You can also view the owner’s manual through the touch screen and can control the voice recognition options. The settings menu offers a host of controls for driver assistance, vehicle controls, dynamic digital lights and much more.
The EQE SUV is equipped with a PM2.5 filter and a HEPA fine particle filter. The screen also displays vehicle details and energy flow with some cool graphics. You can view off-road related information and also have a transparent bonnet view on the touchscreen when off the road.
360-degree camera display is pretty crisp and gives a good view of the surroundings. A host of driver assistance features like active lane keep assist, active steering assistance, downhill speed control, etc. can be accessed through the touch screen.
You can choose from different Dynamic drive modes – Eco, Comfort, Sport, Individual and Off-road.
Below the touchscreen, you have a classy brown open-pore magnolia wood trim with Mercedes-Benz three-pointed star detailing in silver. You can slide it upwards to
reveal a storage area underneath. There are two cupholders and a slot for the key. Above that, there’s a slot for a wireless charging pad and two USB Type-C charging ports.
Further down, you have this set of buttons for quick access to drive modes, 360-degree camera, EV-related options, vehicle settings, start-stop button, hazard warning lights and audio controls. There’s also a fingerprint sensor next to the start-stop button to access your personal profile. We wish that this panel was placed below the touchscreen for easier reach. In the current position, it's too far back and you have to take your eyes off the road and look down to press any of these buttons.
The driver armrest has a deep storage area underneath with two more USB type-C charging ports.
A look at the passenger side of the dashboard. You get a 12.3-inch touchscreen which is activated only when there’s a person seated in the front passenger seat.
The passenger can access almost all the same menus as the main touchscreen through this screen. He/she can also connect Bluetooth headphones and access some apps individually. Interestingly, there’s no privacy filter on this touchscreen display so that the driver isn’t distracted from this screen while driving.
At night, the ambient lighting brightens up the cabin. You can choose from 64 colours and can even have it in dynamic mode where the system chooses the colour according to the drive mode.
A huge open stowage area underneath the centre console is extremely useful for keeping various items. There’s an elastic band at the bottom to keep things in place. Note that there are two USB Type-C charging ports here as well.
A look at the touch-operated sunroof control. You can also use voice commands to open and close the sunroof.
The panoramic sunroof brings in a lot of light into the cabin making it feel bright and airy.
Rear doorpads are simpler in design compared to the front.
All three passengers in the rear get 3-point seatbelts and adjustable headrests.
A look at the rear seat in Neva Grey upholstery.
Legroom is healthy and Ajmat (5’11”) could sit behind his own driving position comfortably. Backrest is also set at a comfortable angle and you can recline it slightly. Headroom is adequate despite the sunroof and the sloping roofline. The only gripe is that some tall passengers will find the under-thigh support lacking. Also, note that the rear passengers do not get roof-mounted grab handles.
With the front seat pushed all the way forward, rear passengers can have more legroom.
The rear centre armrest is set at a comfortable height.
Press the top part once and a mobile holder pops out. Press it once again and cupholders pop out.
Rear passengers also get dual-zone climate control and can adjust the temperatures individually.
Down below, you have two more USB Type-C charging ports.
The Mercedes EQE SUV has a boot space of 520 litres. This is reduced considerably by the presence of the spare wheel as you can see here.
Spare tyre is a space saver with a top-speed limit of 80 km/h.
You can expand the boot space to 1,675 litres by folding the rear seats.
There’s some storage underneath the boot floor.
You get a charging cable and an extension placed nicely in two separate cases.
Tools for changing the tyre are placed in a Styrofoam casing.
12V socket and bag hook have been placed in the boot. Interestingly, you don’t get flaps or buttons in the boot to fold the rear seats.
There is no frunk under the bonnet.