Toyota Innova Hycross Review

Toyota Innova Hycross Pros
A great-looking MPV. SUV’ish styling packs appeal
Nicely designed interiors, good comfort in all 3 rows and usable boot (even with 3rd row up)
Loaded to the gills with features such as a panoramic sunroof, ventilated seats, electrically adjustable rear ottoman seats, multi-zone climate control, connected car features, leather upholstery, drive modes, etc.
Hybrid powertrain makes it lighter on the pocket than a diesel and future-proof too. Very good fuel efficiency (expect city FE of 15-17 km/l)
Impressive performance with a sub-10 second 0-100 km/h time (Toyota claims 9.5 seconds)
Monocoque construction results in sorted handling and comfortable ride quality
Brilliant NVH levels result in a quiet and serene experience inside the cabin
Toyota's bullet-proof reliability, excellent after-sales service and fuss-free ownership experiences
Safety features such as 6 airbags, Toyota Safety Sense (ADAS), ABS, ESP, TC, all-wheel disc brakes, hill hold, TPMS, Isofix & 3-point seatbelts for all

Toyota Innova Hycross Cons
Expected to be even more expensive than the already-pricey Innova Crysta. Will be premium-priced
Top-end variants are only available with captain seats in the middle row. No bench option is inexplicable!!
18" wheels with 50 profile tyres compromise the overall stance; they look very small
Monocoque construction won’t be as rugged & abuse-friendly as the Crysta's body-on-frame build
Interior plastic quality is very mediocre, some parts feel budget-grade
Rear seat ottomans are useless for taller passengers
Average sound quality from the JBL system, poor camera resolution and a basic infotainment system display
Missing features such as rain-sensing wipers, lumbar adjustment, boss lever on the front passenger seat...
The already-good ride quality could be even better with higher profile tyres (e.g. on craters). 225/50 sidewalls are on the shorter side

Introduction
Ever since Toyota introduced the Innova in India (back in 2005) it has been considered the benchmark MUV in the country. The second-generation Innova, which was christened "Innova Crysta", picked up where the first-generation car left off. Globally, Toyota has sold 2.6 million units of the Innova. Out of this figure, ~40% is accounted for by the Indian market. This has made the Innova, Toyota's most important model for India.
Now, the company is introducing the third-generation Innova in the country. The new car, which will be available in petrol and petrol hybrid versions only, has big shoes to fill. However, from what we have seen so far, the new car has what it takes to continue the success story. Pricing though, will play an important part in determining the popularity of the vehicle.
When the car goes on sale in January 2023, it will be available in 3 trim levels: G-SLF, GX, VX, ZX and ZX(O). While the G-SLF and GX will be powered by a 2.0L petrol engine with a CVT, the VX, ZX and ZX(O) will come with a petrol-hybrid powertrain with an e-Drive (CVT) transmission. Both powertrains come with front-wheel drive configuration.
All variants come with a 7-seat configuration while the G-SLF, GX and VX buyers can opt for 8 seats. There will be no diesel engine on offer. However, with the prices of petrol and diesel so close to each other and an efficient hybrid powertrain available, the case for diesel is not very strong. Besides, one has to remember that BS6 diesel cars have not had a very smooth run in India (read DPF issues).

Exterior
Design & Styling
The Innova Hycross is quite different from the Crysta when it comes to styling and is quite a head-turner. It looks very good for an MPV. Toyota has made the car look a lot more SUVish compared to its predecessor. With an imposing radiator grille, raised bonnet line and muscular stance, the Hycross has a good road presence.
On the road, other motorists looked eagerly at our test car. The car gets a large grille, badges, silver and chrome inserts, LED daytime running lights, headlamps and tail-lamps, strong character lines on the sides, plastic cladding around the wheel arches and 18" alloy wheels. The vehicle will be available in 7 single-tone body colours.

Build Quality, Fit & Finish
Unlike the previous versions of the Innova, which came with body-on-frame construction, the Hycross has a monocoque construction. It is built on the Toyota New Global Architecture (TNGA) modular platform. This platform is shared with the fourth-generation Toyota Noah / Voxy MPV, which is not sold in India. The car is well-built. The doors & tailgate have a fair deal of weight to them and the bonnet is heavy. There’s a little bit of flex in the body panels. While the Hycross doesn't feel as solid as a premium European car, it's far from light or flimsy. The doors shut with a reassuring thud. Overall fit & finish are just as you'd expect from a Toyota. Toyota hasn't shared the kerb weight of the Innova Hycross.

Wheels & Tyres
The ZX and ZX(O) come with 18" super chrome alloys shod with 225/50 section Goodyear Assurance tyres. This wheel-tyre combo looks too small compared to the metal on top. It does not fill up the wheel arches very well. Taller rubber would have definitely helped make it look proportionate. It would offer a cushier ride and lowered chances of alloy wheel damage on broken Indian roads.
The G-SLF variant gets 16" steel wheels, while the GX variant comes with 16' alloy wheels. Both these variants get 205/65 section tyres. The VX rides on 17" alloy wheels shod with 215/60 section tyres. We are sure these variants will offer a more comfortable ride than the ZX and ZX(O).

Ground Clearance
Toyota hasn't revealed the exact ground clearance of the Innova Hycross. However, it seems adequate for most users. We didn't scrape the car during our test, even when we took the car off-road for photography.

Standard & Extended Warranty
The Innova Hycross will come with a standard warranty of 3 years / 100,000 km. Owners have the option of purchasing an extended warranty of up to 5 years / 220,000 km. The car also comes with 3 years of free roadside assistance. The hybrid battery comes with a warranty of 8 years / 160,000 km. As is always the case, we
strongly
recommend extended warranty coverage.

Safety
The Innova Hycross is loaded with safety features such as 3-point seatbelts for all occupants, 6 airbags, ESP, ABS, hill-hold, traction control, ISOFIX child seat mounts, SOS call, TPMS, front and rear parking sensors and a 360-degree camera system. Toyota has equipped the car with a "Toyota Safety Sense" (TSS) package, which features Dynamic Radar Cruise Control (DRCC), Lane Trace Assist (LTA), Auto High Beam (AHB),  Blind Spot Monitor (BSM) systems, Electronic Parking Brake with Auto Hold, Pre-Collision System and Rear Cross Traffic Alert systems.
As of now, the Innova Hycross has not been crash tested by Global NCAP or any other independent body.

Interior
Cabin Design & Quality
The Hycross' cabin has a premium look and feel. The interior has a dual-tone dark chestnut theme with silver and gloss black inserts. Glass area is sufficient. The dark-coloured interior might not feel as "airy" as a beige cabin, but it will conceal any signs of soiling better than a lighter theme. Leather has been used on the dashboard, and the part quality feels good for the most part. The gear shifter is mounted on the center fascia rather than the centre console and paddle shifters have been provided. Overall, the cabin feels well-built and durable. We didn't find any rough edges in the vehicle.

Space & Comfort
There is enough space at the front. Cabin width is healthy and so is the headroom. The electrically adjustable driver’s seat offers satisfactory support. It slides back enough even for tall drivers to feel comfortable. It comes with a memory function as well. Sadly, the passenger seat gets manual adjustment and no height adjustment. The quilted dark chestnut leather upholstery is of good quality, with the right amount of cushioning and padding. Both front seats are ventilated as well - a boon in India's tropical climate. The centre console is high and provides a cossetting effect. It incorporates a fixed, long and wide leather-wrapped armrest which is placed at a comfortable height. The door pads too host useable armrests.

Driving Position & Ergonomics
Ergonomically, we found the Hycross to be user-friendly. The steering is good to hold, while the horn pad isn't hard to press. The horn itself is a nice-sounding, typically European dual-tone unit. The steering wheel is adjustable for height and reach, which makes getting the desired driving position easy. As mentioned earlier, the gear lever is mounted on the front fascia, which we found very user-friendly. All other controls are where you'd expect them to be and are easily accessible.
The driving position is very good with a clear view of the road ahead. Even the dashboard is not set very high. At 5'10", not only could I see over the dash, but also the bonnet. However, rearward visibility is restricted by the thick D-pillars. The driver's footwell gets a large & useable dead pedal.

Cabin Storage
The Innova Hycross does fairly well in terms of cabin storage. There are two cupholders that can be pulled out from under the side air-con vents & two cupholders are located on the centre console. The door pockets are adequately sized and can hold a 1L bottle and knick-knacks. There is a deep storage bin under the centre armrest. On the passenger side, there is a long and slim compartment on the dashboard, just above the glovebox where the front passengers can store their smartphones. The glove box is medium-sized. It doesn't have a cooling vent or illumination. Coming to the rear, both front seats have seatback pockets with the left unit also getting a foldable bag hook. The rear door pads get pockets that can hold a 1L bottle and knick-knacks. Additionally, there is a foldable tray with a couple of cupholders between the second-row seats. The third-row occupants get a couple of cupholders on both sides along with storage spaces to keep their smartphones.

Air-Conditioning
The Toyota Innova Hycross gets a multi-zone climate control system which is effective. During our test drive, the interior was chilled in seconds, although we would wait to read in the Team-BHP ownership reports how it fares during hot Indian summers. A pollution filter has also been provided.

Features
Unique & Noteworthy Features
The Innova Hycross comes with features such as a panoramic sunroof and touchscreen head-unit with Android Auto and Apple CarPlay, connected car tech, JBL 9-speaker sound system (including subwoofer), ventilated seats, 360-degree camera, ambient lighting, auto-dimming IRVM and other such goodies. Standout features include two individual ottoman seats which can be slid front & back and reclined, green laminated acoustic IR cut windshield, sunshades for the rear windows and an electric tailgate. The car also gets Eco, Sport and EV driving modes, and TSS (mentioned earlier). A wireless charging pad can be purchased as an accessory. However, rain-sensing wipers have been left out of the equipment list, which is a disappointment in such a premium car.

Audio System & Sound Quality
The Hycross gets a 10.1" capacitive touchscreen head-unit with an amplifier and 9 JBL speakers, voice commands and Android Auto / Apple CarPlay. The size of the touchscreen is large and the interface is alright to use. Visibility is good even under direct sunlight. The doors hold a speaker each, while the A-Pillars house the tweeters. Two speakers have been fitted in the dashboard and a subwoofer is placed in the boot.
The audio system is fair and most owners won't complain. But considering the price at which the Hycross is expected to sell, we would have expected truly premium sound quality. The cheaper MG Hector offers vastly superior sound quality.

Rear Passengers
Rear Seat Comfort & Space
There’s excellent space for second-row passengers & your family members will be pleased. The two ottoman seats can accommodate even healthier occupants and just like the front, the cushioning is just right.
The second-row ottoman seats have individual folding armrests and a very long fore & aft travel range and a 6-footer will be able to comfortably sit behind a 6-feet driver. No complaints about headroom either. Even taller occupants will have enough clearance. The individual seats recline, offer good support and are comfortable. However, under-thigh support is inadequate particularly for taller occupants. This renders the ottoman quite useless as well.  However, if there is no one in the third row and the front seats, the second-row seats can be reclined and the ottoman raised to form beds. Passengers get rear air-con vents and two USB charging ports.
You can access the third row of seats by sliding the second-row seats forward. Getting into the third row does take some effort. It is not easy for adults, more so if one is unfit. That said, it’s easier than many other 7-seaters I have experienced. Once in, you'll find that the last row of seats are actually pretty usable. They are placed at a decent height. Knee room is just adequate and even a 6-footer will be able to fit by sliding the second-row seat forward via levers located on the seatbacks. There’s also enough headroom for third-row adults. You can recline the backrest as well. Coming to the width, two adults will fit in comfortably, but a third adult will not be welcome. Three children will easily fit in though. All in all, the third row is one of the best ones we have experienced. This makes the Innova Hycross a proper 7-seater.
A 12V socket is placed on the left for charging gadgets with air vents along the sides of the roof.

Boot Space
Toyota hasn’t revealed the boot figures yet. Still, with all the seats up, there's some space left and the boot can only hold small-medium bags. With the third row of seats folded, things get better and a healthy 991 litres of luggage space is available. The best part is, the cargo area has a completely flat floor with the third row seats folded down.

Driving the Innova Hycross 2.0L Hybrid
The Toyota Innova Hycross Hybrid is powered by a 5th Generation Self-Charging Strong Hybrid Electric System with TNGA 2.0-Litre 4-cylinder VVTi petrol engine. The car has a 1.7 kWh Ni-MH battery that powers the electric motor. Its combined power is 184 BHP and motor torque is 206 Nm. The engine is paired to an e-Drive transmission with sequential shift.
With your foot on the brake, press the engine start button. It doesn't result in the usual sound of a starter cranking the engine to life; it's eerily silent & for those who haven't experienced electric or hybrid cars before, this does take a little getting used to. Slot the gear lever into D and you're all set to roll.
One of the first things you notice is the absence of a rev counter. It sure feels weird to drive a car without the rpm needle moving up & down. The instant torque from the electric motor ensures that the Innova Hycross immediately darts forward. Low-end torque is good. In heavy traffic, you can drive the car without any throttle input. The petrol engine turns on only when extra shove is required, or if the batteries are below a certain charge level. The engine also switches on when the car crosses ~40 km/h. While the insulation is superb & regular folk won't know, enthusiasts will notice when the petrol engine suddenly kicks in. Whether it is driving in bumper-to-bumper traffic or closing gaps, the Hycross does it effortlessly. The e-Drive transmission provides a seamless experience in the city. As there aren't any actual gear shifts taking place, the drive feels amazingly smooth. Throttle response is good and the rubber-band effect is well-controlled with a light foot on the accelerator. These traits make the Innova Hycross very easy to drive in the city.
On the open road too, the Innova Hycross provides satisfactory performance. There is enough power and torque on offer to keep up with the traffic with ease. The powertrain responds well to throttle inputs and power is always available. Outright performance is strong. Toyota claims that the Hycross will do a 0-100 km/h sprint in under 10 seconds, which we are tempted to believe. Slow-moving vehicles are overtaken without any drama. In terms of cruisability, the Hycross proves to be a good mile muncher. It can maintain triple-digit speeds effortlessly. At the same time, the cabin is quiet, cutting out most of the outside noises.
The Hycross gets drive modes that basically alter the throttle response as well as the behaviour of the internal combustion engine. There is a dedicated EV mode button that will let you drive the car as an EV for the max distance possible. However, if you are heavy on the throttle or the car crosses ~40 km/h or the battery's state of charge is too low, the system will go back from EV mode to hybrid mode.
Apart from the EV mode, there are 3 drive modes: Normal, Eco and Power. These 3 modes alter the throttle response.
The Normal mode is the default mode which is in between the middle of Eco and Power modes. It works well in town and on the highway and offers a good balance between efficiency and performance. In fact, you really don't need to change it unless you're driving uphill or want to overtake a vehicle quickly on an undivided highway.
In Eco mode, the internal combustion engine doesn't come on as easily unless you press the throttle a lot more. The response is lazier and it tries to keep it in hybrid mode with the internal combustion engine only charging the battery and not sending power to the wheels unless the accelerator is pressed very firmly.
In Power mode, it's the opposite. Even with a light dab of the throttle, the internal combustion motor comes alive and assists the power delivery. On undivided highways, this is the mode to use to pull off safe overtakes. Throttle response is much sharper and you rarely see the internal combustion engine turning off. Of course, this mode impacts fuel efficiency the most. Don't use this mode in the city as power delivery can get a little spiky.
The gearbox also has a manual mode. You can use the gear shifter or the paddles behind the steering wheel to change gears. You'll like the engine braking on offer. The gearbox has an "S" mode too in which the transmission holds the gears for a little longer than in the regular D mode.
Thick insulation has been provided under the bonnet.
Engine bay has a lot of free space.

Noise, Vibration & Harshness (NVH)
The Innova Hycross' NVH levels are impressive. The car does a good job of keeping most noises out of the cabin most of the time. It's only when you press the accelerator harder that you can hear the 2.0L petrol engine. However, it is never loud and intrusive and the occupants of the car do not have to raise their voices while talking to each other. In fact, the insulation is so good that on the go, even the horn of the car is heard very faintly inside the cabin! We did not feel any vibrations even when the petrol motor came on.
Wind noise, road noise and suspension noise are well-contained.

Mileage & Fuel economy
In our short drive, which included some fast driving and lots of idling, we saw 14.3 km/l on the MID. With better driving, we are pretty sure that the hybrid will deliver much better FE figures.  Toyota claims that the car can deliver 21.1 km/l.

Suspension & Ride Comfort
The Toyota Innova Hycross gets a MacPherson strut suspension at the front and a semi-independent torsion beam suspension setup at the rear. The suspension is well-tuned to provide a compliant ride. However, the car rides on 18" rims with 225/50 section tyres. While the width of the rubber is fine, the sidewalls are just too short. This results in more bumps and potholes being transmitted to the occupants than we would like. While the ride is still fine, we are pretty sure that it would be better with taller rubber. Even with speeds increasing, the ride remains compliant. We didn't get to check the ride out on very bad roads though.

Handling & Dynamics
High-speed stability is very good. Even at 120 km/h, there is no floatiness or nervousness displayed by the Hycross. While we did not get a winding road to try out the car's handling, we did try some quick lane changes on an empty stretch of road. As expected, the Hycross has more body roll compared to a sedan or crossover. But, it is noticeably lesser than the old body-on-frame Innova Crysta. Again, the tyres provide good grip and the car sticks to its line through curves. Overall, the Hycross certainly feels more car-like to drive compared to its predecessor.

Steering
The Innova Crysta had a very heavy hydraulic steering. This made the car cumbersome to drive at low speeds. The Hycross gets an electric steering that is well-calibrated. It is light at slow speeds and gets heavier as the speed goes up. This along with the healthy rake and reach adjustment, makes the Hycross way better to steer than the old Innovas. That said, it could do with more feedback.

Braking
Being a hybrid, braking is different compared to conventional cars. With disc brakes all around, the stopping power is good. But the braking needs time to get used to. It's not easy to get a linear braking response. Sometimes you hit a bump faster than you intended to since the braking isn't linear. This needs getting used to. It will catch you off guard initially, but after a while, you get accustomed to it and change your braking style accordingly.

Toyota Innova Hycross Exterior Images
Front end features a large radiator grille, raised bonnet line and wide bumper. These give the car an SUVish appearance.
Rear end looks is a lot busier than the Crysta's with multiple cuts and creases and the use of chrome. No effort has been made to hide the tailpipe.
Strong character lines on the side attempt to make the Hycross look less like an MUV. Overhangs are short.
One of the best angles to look at the Hycross from. The cuts and creases all over the body give the car a muscular stance. The new Blackish Ageha Glass Flake looks great.
The Hycross measures 4,755 mm in length, 1850 mm in width and 1790 mm in height with a wheelbase of 2,850 mm, which Toyota claims, is the longest in its class. The wheel-tyre combo looks too small for the metal on top.
Tri-eye LED headlamps have an auto high beam feature that uses a forward-looking camera that detects various forms of light and determines when to have the high beams on. Headlamps get chrome inserts.
Bold radiator grille has a gunmetal finish and gets a chrome insert and chrome border on the lower part. The front camera for the 360-degree camera system is located below the large "T" badge.
Styrofoam packing behind the bumper is clearly visible.
Wide front bumper houses daytime running lights, four parking sensors, round LED fog lamps and silver inserts on the side. The faux silver skid plate is an accessory.
Long and slim LED daytime running lights double up as turn indicators.
Towing point is located on the left just above the fog lamp.
While there is some underbody protection at the front, it really does not stretch back much.
Bonnet has very prominent creases. "INNOVA" lettering at the front is an accessory.
Wiper spindles and washers are concealed under the bonnet.
Camera for the Toyota Safety Sense system is located behind the IRVM.
Panel gaps are uniform for the most part.
They get wider around the bonnet and tailgate.
ORVMs get integrated LED turn indicators and chrome inserts. "Hybrid" badge is pasted on both front doors.
Puddle lamps and cameras for the 360-degree camera system are located underneath the ORVMs.
Door handles get chrome inserts. Only the driver's door gets a keyhole. Request sensor is placed on top of the handle. The door protector is an accessory.
While the quarter glass is small, the overall glass area is sufficient. The window line rises as you go towards the rear and D-pillar is thick.
A closer look at the prominent crease on the side. Chrome insert is an accessory.
Strong crease flows from the rear body panel to the door. In the unfortunate event of an accident, repairing this will be difficult.
18" super chrome alloys shod with 225/50 section Goodyear Assurance tyres do not fill the wheel arches. Taller rubber would have helped improve the stance of the car as well as the ride.
Rear wheels are equipped with disc brakes.
Both front and rear wheel wells get full cladding on the inside.
Sticker on the inside of the fuel flap informs you about the diet of the Hycross. There is a small "P" on the cap as well. The fuel flap on this car needed to be held open.
There is very little underbody protection. While the ground clearance seems adequate, Toyota should have done better than to expose all those cables to the elements.
52-litre fuel tank is located just ahead of the rear suspension.
As is expected in a car likely to cost upwards of 30 lakhs, the Innova Hycross gets a panoramic sunroof.
Rear section of the roof is ribbed and carries a sharkfin antenna.
Roof spoiler also houses the HMSL. It gets a glossy black plastic piece that helps it gel with the D-pillar design.
Full LED tail lamp clusters get chrome borders and glossy black separators. Notice the aero fin on the side.
Rear windshield is adequately sized. Tailgate gets a chrome strip just below the windshield and houses badges that depict the manufacturer, model, variant and powertrain.
Rear camera is tucked away above the numberplate (on the left). In a car this long, you're going to need it while reversing.
Dual tone rear bumper gets honeycomb mesh detailing along with slim reflectors and chrome inserts at both ends. Faux silver scuff plate is an accessory.
Tailpipe is located on the right and has a chrome tip. Towing point is located just above it.
Spare wheel is a steel unit. It is carried under the body.
Rear mudflaps have an interesting design.

Toyota Innova Hycross Interior Images
Tall and commanding driving position. You can see a fair bit of the bonnet from the driver's seat.
A-Pillars hold a tweeter each. At their base, is a speaker.
Leather-wrapped multifunction steering with thumb contours is chunky and nice to hold. It has a silver insert on the lower spokes and between the buttons on the left and right spokes. The horn pad is light to press.
Steering wheel houses buttons for controlling the infotainment, telephone, voice commands, MID and Toyota Safety Sense features. The  buttons are well-sized (including the fonts).
Paddle shifters on either side of the steering - one on the left is for shifting down and vice versa.
The steering offers tilt & telescopic adjustment. Both have a healthy range.
Instrument cluster comes with an Eco reading on the left (no rev counter), a speedometer in the middle and fuel and temperature gauges on the right. It is clean and easy to read.
Speedometer and MID change colour according to the drive mode selected - Blue for Normal, Green for ECO and Red for Power. MID also gives a readout if the EV mode is selected.
A host of information is relayed by the MID.
Multiple settings including those for the Toyota Safety Sense features can be adjusted through the MID.
Thick stalks give positive feedback and are great to use. Auto headlamps have been provided. At this price, I would've expected auto rain-sensing wipers too.
Except in the base variant, all trim levels get keyless entry & go. The engine start button gets a silver ring.
The side vents have thick silver surrounds and inserts.
Small drawers on the driver + passenger side double up as cupholders. You can direct the airflow there to keep your fizzy drink can cool! The plastic used is of basic quality though.
Headlight leveller and controls for the auto high beam and tailgate opening mechanism are located to the right of the steering wheel.
Flip-up levers for the bonnet & fuel lid.
Door pads have silver + leather inserts and house the front speakers. The quality of materials used is acceptable.
The door handle is finished in chrome. Buttons for the seat memory function are located above.
The power window console has a piano black finish. All 4 windows get auto up & down. Notice the recessed area on the driver’s button only. You get auto-folding mirrors as well.
Door pockets are large and can accommodate a 1L bottle and other knick-knacks.
The cabin has sufficient width, thus two hefty passengers sitting side by side won't be elbowing each other. The headroom at the front is generous. Ventilated front seats are firm & wide. They offer good support and draped in quilted dark chestnut leather upholstery is of good quality, with the right amount of cushioning and padding. The adjustable headrests are comfortable.
8-way electric adjustment. Nothing for lumbar support though.
Manual adjustment for the front passenger seat. It lacks height adjustment as well.
Driver armrest is clad in leather and the surface is soft. It’s not adjustable, but is conveniently placed.
Seatbelts are adjustable for height. They get pre-tensioners & load limiters.
The footwell is wide enough and the dead pedal is huge! It is positioned perfectly and can even accommodate large-sized shoes.
ORVMs are wide and offer an excellent view of the happenings behind.
They come with blind-spot warnings.
IRVM size is just adequate & it comes with an auto-dimming function.
Rearward view is average thanks to the thick D-pillars. The headrest for the middle passenger (removed in this image) severely restricts visibility. You’ll be depending on that reversing camera more than you should while reversing.
Centre fascia is predominantly finished in glossy black and has a thick silver border. The touchscreen head unit sticks out at the top while the gear shifter is mounted below the climate control system.
10.1" touchscreen head-unit gets Android Auto & Apple CarPlay connectivity. Music is played through a 9-speaker JBL sound system with an amplifier and sub-woofer, but the sound quality is just average.
360-degree camera offers multiple views. Display quality is poor for a car of this class though.
The Hycross gets a multi-zone climate control system with a pollution filter. Air-con vents have silver inserts. Along with the control panel, they get a glossy black console. Buttons to operate the seat ventilation are placed here as well.
Chunky gear shifter is good to hold and operate. It has a glossy black console. Manual mode can be engaged by shifting the lever to D and then to the right. Switches for the 360-degree camera, drive modes, EV mode and traction control are located next to it along with the electronic parking brake and auto-hold switch.
C-Type and A-Type USB ports are located at the base of the centre fascia.
Center console gets a pair of cupholders with a thick silver border.
Under the driver's armrest is a deep storage box with a carpeted base.
LHS drawer has a different design from the RHS unit.
Left side of the dashboard has a narrow storage space that can hold slim items such as smartphones.
12V charging socket is located on the right.
The glove box is medium-sized and opens with a damped action. It does not get compartments, illumination or cooling.
Roof bezel holds the controls for the sunroof and cabin lights as well as a button for the SOS e-call.
Bluetooth mic is mounted on the roof. Should have been integrated into the roof bezel.
Both front doors have springloaded grab handles above them.
Sunvisors are thick and feel premium to the touch. Driver's side unit gets a ticket holder.
Both sun visors get vanity mirrors with covers and illumination.
The Hycross gets 6 airbags. It should be noted that the Crysta was equipped with 7. The knee airbag has been unfortunately dropped.
Massive panoramic sunroof lets in a lot of light, making the cabin feel airy.
Smartkey looks premium with glossy black buttons and silver inserts.
Door pads get the same theme as the ones in the front (leather and silver inserts). Rear speakers are housed on them.
Rear windows get manual roll-up sunshades for protection against the sun and some privacy.
Just like the front, the rear door pockets are large and can accommodate a lot of items including 1L bottles.
Individual ottoman seats at the rear are very comfortable and can accommodate even larger occupants. Headrests are adjustable.
Healthy legroom in the second row. A long fore & aft travel range for the seats means no one is likely to complain about poor legroom. The floor is flat.
There is enough legroom for three 6-footers to sit comfortably behind each other. However, the second-row seats are placed low and do not provide good under-thigh support.
One cannot slide his / her feet under the front seats as the batteries are placed there.
Abundant headroom for even taller occupants.
Rear window is large and lets in a lot of light.
While the seatback can be reclined electrically, the fore & aft adjustment is done via a chunky plastic lever on the side of the seat.
The ottomans give the second-row seats airline-like comfort. However, they aren't very useful most of the time as the seats are placed lower than we would have liked.
The ottoman can be raised or lowered electrically using this switch.
With the front seat pushed forward, recline the backrest and raise the ottoman to create a near-perfect bed. Great for chauffeur-driven businessmen who spend long hours stuck in the Western Express Highway traffic while returning home after a long day at work.
Leather-wrapped individual folding armrests for the second-row seats are very comfortable.
A folding tray with two cupholders is attached to the RHS seat.
Both second-row seats get ISOFIX child seat mounts.
Seatbacks of the front seats are scooped out to liberate more knee room. Seatback pockets have been provided for the second-row occupants to use.
A folding bag hook has been provided on the left seatback.
Switches and display for the rear climate control system are placed at the end of the centre console.
Two USB charging points are located below.
Air-con vents, cabin lamps and springloaded grab handles with coat hooks are mounted along the roof for second-row occupants to use.
Second and third-row seatbelts can be parked in a clean way when not in use. Even the seatbelt clip has a dedicated holder. Having them slotted like this means no clanking / rattling noises from loose seatbelts.
To get into the third row, one has to move the second-row seat forward.
Though not as difficult as some other cars, getting in an out of the third row is still best suited to the young and fit. It involves a bit of bending and twisting.
Besides, the floor of the car is quite a long way off the ground.
Third row is designed for three occupants with headrests and 3-point seatbelts for all passengers. However, it can realistically seat only two adults or three children. The backrest is split in a 50:50 ratio.
Seatbelt for the middle passenger is mounted on the roof. The cabin light is located next to it.
Third-row backrests recline. There is enough legroom for a 6-footer, but taller passengers will find the under-thigh lacking.
You can adjust the backrest angle to your preference. Even with the backrest upright, there is enough headroom in the third row for taller occupants.
Third-row window is small. Yet, it offers a decent view of the happenings outside.
These large levers enable the third-row occupants to move the second-row seats forward.
Air-con vents and fixed grab handles are present on both.
Two cupholders and cubbyholes to keep smartphones are present on both sides. A 12V power outlet has been provided on the left.
Even with the third-row seats in place, there is space left over for a couple of medium-sized bags.
JBL subwoofer is placed on the left.
When not in use, the headrest for the middle passenger of the third row can be stowed away in the boot. Two holes have been provided on the left in front of the subwoofer where it fits in perfectly.
Boot light with the switch is located on the right.
Lift the boot floor and you'll find the tools placed in a plastic tray on the left.
Space on the right enables you to conceal your belongings under the boot floor.
Bolt to lower the spare tyre is concealed under the carpet. It gets a cover as well.
Third-row seat can be folded using this lever. There's one for the other seat too.
Folding the third-row seats down gives you a flat loading bay and 991 litres of cargo space.
Tailgate gets a full black cover on the inside. No ugly bits sticking out anywhere.
Tailgate gets electrically closing. You can set the opening height as well.